The Amtrak Wars - Book 5 - Death-Bringer 

By: Patrick Tilley

Synopsis:

With Clearwater now safely in their hands, the Federation hatches a
plan to capture Cadillac and Mr Snow and annihilate the Clan McCall: a
plan which forces Steve to continue his double role as loyal agent of
the Federation and blood-brother to the Mutes.  The First Family is
hell-bent on exacting retribution for past defeats but the
twice-bloodied House of Yama-Shita is also thirsting for vengeance.
Both parties blindly pursue their own ends unaware that the outcome is
governed not by force of arms but by the irrevocable power of
prophecy.

Also by Patrick Tilley."

THE AMTRAK WARS BOOK 1: CLOUD WARRIOR THE AMTRAK WARS BOOK 2: FIRST
FAMILY THE AMTRAK WARS BOOK 3: IRON MASTER THE AMTRAK WARS BOOK 4:
BLOOD RIVER THE AMTRAK WARS BOOK 6: EARTH-THUNDER MISSION FADEOUT STAR
WARTZ

The Amtrak Wars Book 5: Death-Bringer

PATRICK TILLEY

ORBIT

An Orbit Book

First published in Great Britain by Sphere Books Ltd 1989

Reprinted 1990 (twice), 1991

Reprinted by Warner Books 1995

Reprinted 1995

Reprinted by Orbit 1998

Copyright ?1989 by Patrick Tilley The moral right of the author has
been asserted.

All characters in this publication are fictitious and any resemblance
to real persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.

All rights reserved.

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval
system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the prior
permission in writing of the publisher, nor be otherwise circulated in
any form of binding or cover other than that in which it is published
and without a similar condition including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser.

A ClP catalogue record for this book is available from the British
Library.

ISBN 1 85723 539 8

Printed in England by Clays Ltd.  St Ives plc

Orbit

A Division of Little, Brown and Company (ilK) Brettenham House

Lancaster Place

London we2E 7EN

For

Patrick, Freddie and Sean the next generation who were into computers
before they were out of nappies and have now come to grips with
karate.

From the way things are shaping up this looks like a good career move
for anyone with a ticket to the 21st Century.

Good luck, boys.  Carry the torch.  Hold it high.

CHAPTER ONE

In the spring of 2991, Mr Snow, wordsmith of the Clan m'call, faced a
difficult decision.  Should he accompany the clan's delegation to the
trading post on the shores of the Great River - or should he stay
behind in the hills of Wyoming in case the cloud-warrior returned with
Cadillac and Clearwater?

Two winters had passed since his charges had flown into the Eastern
Lands and it was almost a year since the cloud-warrior had gone in
search of them.  Brickman had promised to help them escape from the
Iron Masters but that was easier said than done.  The Dead-faces were a
fearsome race who lived behind closed borders.  No Plainfolk Mute taken
away on the wheel-boats had ever regained his liberty.  But Cadillac
and Clearwater were no ordinary Mutes.  They had been born in the
shadow of Talisman, and Brickman, the cloud-warrior, was also gifted
and resourceful and as cunning as a coyote.  And though he did not yet
understand why, he too had been touched by Talisman.

If there was a chance to escape then these three would seize it, for
between them they possessed the power to overturn nations.  That had
been their destiny from the day they had been born.  But where were
they?  Day after day, Mr Snow had posted sentinels to keep a special
watch over the eastern approaches to the settlement but the
long-awaited travellers had failed to appear.

They were not dead.  In an uncertain world, that was the only thing Mr
Snow was sure of.  Cadillac and Clearwater were the sword and shield of
Talisman, saviour of the Plainfolk who - according to prophecy - was
due to appear in human form.  Cadillac was to use his great gifts to
prepare .the way for Talisman, and Clearwater was to use the immense
forces at her command to protect the Thrice-Gifted One until his own
powers were fully formed.  Which, for instance, would be the case if he
entered the world as a new-born child.  On the other hand, if he was
present in someone already alive, with his powers over heaven and earth
lying dormant until the chosen moment, then her given task was to
protect that individual until Talisman chose to reveal himself.  She
would do this instinctively, without necessarily understanding why,
because Talisman would draw her to him.

Mr Snow had often wondered if Steve Brickman bore the Talisman within
him.  The cloud-warrior's descent from the sky into the hands of the
M'Calls had been foretold by the Sky Voices.  He and Clearwater had
been destined to meet, and in giving herself to him body and soul she
had broken the solemn vows that bound her to Cadillac - grievously
wounding her former lover's pride in the process.

In time, Cadillac would get over it.  It was he who had seen their
separation in the stones.  Clearwater was destined to journey into the
dark world of the sand-burrowers that lay beneath the deserts of the
south.

Home of the iron-snakes that crawled through the land leaving a trail
of devastation behind them, and the arrowheads which carried the
cloud-warriors across the skies.

Warriors armed with long sharp iron and fire-seeds which erupted into
smoke and flame with the sound of earth-thunder.

Not the pure flame that swept the tree-spirits up towards the heavens
but an evil cousin conjured up by the sand-burrowers.  A flame whose
thirst could not be quenched by water, that clung to flesh and burned
through to the bone.

Yes, these were dark days.  The time known as The Great Dying had
come.

A time when the courage of the Plainfolk would be sorely tested.

Mo-Town, the Great Sky-Mother had withdrawn into the Black Tower of
Tamla to weep for her people.  Many would perish but the Plainfolk
would survive and become a great nation under the banner of Talisman.

As a Mute, a revered sage and walking history book of the Clan m'call,
Mr Snow knew that the journey through the Valley of Death had to be
undertaken with as much good grace as one could muster.  The Wheel
turned, The Path was drawn.  Human beings could not change their
destiny; it was the hubris of the unenlightened that fostered the cruel
illusion they could do so.

But meanwhile, three of the principal players were missing.  Where in
the name of Talisman were they?  In a few days, the clan's trade
delegation would be ready to leave for the annual gathering on the
shores of the Great River.  Mr Snow had two choices: to go with them,
or stay behind.  And the cloud-warrior had two ways to return with
Cadillac and Clearwater: by smuggling themselves aboard one of the
giant wheel-boats due to travel along the Great River to the trading
post, or by a more direct, overland route through the territory that
had once belonged to the Io-Wa and Ne-Braska.

A year ago, Brickman had stolen aboard one of the wheel-boats at the
trading post and had been carried away to the Fire-Pits of Beth-Lem.

If he had managed to complete the journey without being discovered he
might decide that this was the best way to return.  In the bustle of
trading activity, with Mutes helping to load and unload the
wheel-boats, they would have an excellent opportunity to steal
ashore.

Once there they could rejoin their clanfolk, becoming part of the
delegation which would then travel home across the plains during the
period of truce known as 'Walking on the Water'.

That was the sensible way, but the journey from Ne-Issan took many days
- perhaps weeks.  Finding a place on a wheel-boat where three people
could remain undetected for days on end would not be easy.  Mr Snow had
been taken aboard one for a brief audience with Lord Yama-Shita.  They
were giant structures but they also carried a large crew who constantly
swarmed back and forth like ants on a dunghill.  And the wheel-boats
only came to the trading post once a year.  To return via this route
meant boarding the right vessel at exactly the right moment.  The
cloud-warrior was resourceful enough to gather this information but
what if they missed the boat?  Or escaped much earlier and were unable
to take the longer but safer way home?

Mr Snow's dilemma arose from his desire to be at the chosen point of
arrival in case his powers were needed to fight off any pursuers.  For
they would be pursued.

That was certain.  Over the years of trading, he had come to understand
the character of the Iron Masters and their obsession with 'face', what
the Mutes called 'standing'.  Because of the status accorded to
warriors, it was a concept the two races shared, but not to the same
degree.  Mutes generally nursed their shattered pride then gave it
another shot.  To the Iron Masters, loss of face was an unbearable
condition which, if the victim's sense of honour could not be regained,
often led to suicide.  This concern with honour, impeccable behaviour
and faultless performance of one's duties only affected the pure-blood
ruling classes; the lower orders - the inferior races - were not graced
by such concerns.  Which, according to his informant, explained why the
gods had condemned them to a life of servitude.

Yes... Given the nature of Cadillac's mission, their escape would cause
a definite loss of face, and the authorities concerned would spare no
effort to recapture them.

Failure to do so would cause heads to roll.  Mr Snow who knew nothing
of the mayhem the trio had caused at the Heron Pool - was unaware that
in its bloody aftermath a great many already had.  He only knew the
Iron Masters were tenacious adversaries who did not admit defeat.  That
was why he had to be on hand in case they pursued his young charges
into the heartland of the Plainfolk.

But he could not be in two places at once and he could no longer
hesitate.  He now had less than a week in which to make his decision.

Perhaps the Sky Voices would consent to guide him.  He had consulted
them many times during the past year but they had greeted his questions
about Clearwater, Cadillac and the cloud-warrior with a baffling
silence.  He clambered up to his favourite rock, sat down with his legs
crossed, took several deep breaths while he admired the view, then
raised his closed eyes and opened his mind to the sky.

For a long while it seemed as if the staff of this spiritual advice
bureau was out to lunch but eventually a series of pictures appeared
before his inner eye.  Soul-searing images of death and destruction on
an unparalleled scale; a grisly drama in which he had been given a
starring role.

Mr Snow was renowned for his courage and resolution but even his
indomitable heart quailed at this new burden that Fate had thrust upon
him.  And what made it worse was the knowledge that these fleeting
images were merely a foretaste of what was to come.  But there could be
no turning back.  The Sky Voices had spoken - and had left him in no
doubt as to what he had to do.

Some two thousand miles to the east of the M'Call settlement, Ieyasu,
Lord Chamberlain of the Inner Court, grand-uncle and principal advisor
to the Shogun Yoritomo Toh-Yota, absolute ruler of Ne-Issan, was also
beset by problems that demanded resolution.

If Mr Snow was old, Ieyasu was ancient, but they had many qualities in
common including keen eyes and fire in their belly.  Both were shrewd,
highly intelligent and infinitely wise in the ways of the world even
though the societies in which they lived were totally dissimilar except
for their respect of physical courage and the code of honour which
formed the basis of the warrior ethos.

Mr Snow could not read or write but possessed gifts of memory and
magic: Ieyasu was literate, extremely well educated and although he was
unable to summon earth and sky forces to his aid, the skill and cunning
with which he outmanoeuvred all those who sought to remove him from
power was little short of supernatural.

Before Yoritomo's accession to the throne at the tender age of
twenty-three, Ieyasu had exercised absolute power in the name of the
Shogun's dissolute father.  Yoritomo, now twenty-nine, was made of
different cloth.  Restrained in his sexual appetites, something of an
ascetic in his attitude to food and drink, overburdened with a tiresome
morality and obsessed with traditional values, Yoritomo had proved
particularly difficult to deal with.  And the main source of difficulty
was his determination to take sole charge of the nation's affairs and
ignore the voice of experience.  The voice, of course, being that of
his granduncle.

It was hard enough trying to keep the government afloat and
conspirators at bay without having to reeducate an aspiring saint who
was trying to manoeuvre you out of office.  In time, Yoritomo would
learn.  But he would learn a lot quicker and make life a lot easier for
everyone by absorbing the distilled wisdom of his grand-uncle.

Something he had done with the utmost reluctance.

In part, it was a natural reaction to the moral laxity which had
pervaded the Inner Court during his father's reign.  As a new broom,
Yoritomo wanted to make a clean sweep.  A perfectly laudable aim.  The
court was in need of a thorough spring cleaning.  But in politics one
never did anything to excess.  Yoritomo did not understand the
importance of leaving a little dirt in the corners.  His puritanical
streak - laudable in a monk but utterly depressing in a vigorous,
intelligent young man holding the highest office in the land - was
blinding him to the realities of power.

The young shogun had not yet grasped an essential truth: exploiting the
weaknesses of powerful men - especially powerful opponents - was an
important element in the art of statecraft.  It was also true that a
nation needed honest men of high principle and modest ambition.  They
made excellent civil servants.

The government revenue and customs houses and the postal service were
always crying out for more.  Sinners, on the other hand, made better
dinner companions.  And they were a lot easier to do business with.

Ieyasu was also a traditionalist, as opposed to those who favoured
progressive ideals - a group of domain-lords led by the Yama-Shita
family.  But the progress advocated by this cabal of entrepreneurs was
restricted to the introduction of new industrial processes and
manufacturing techniques.  No one, however radical their ideas were in
that direction, was in favour of modernising the feudal system on which
Ne-Issan had been built.

The problem - in Ieyasu's eyes at least - was that you could not have
one without undermining the other.  And none of the seventeen ruling
samurai families was prepared to surrender an ounce of power or
privilege to the lower classes.  It was the merchants who argued the
case for an expanding economy and the benefits to be gained by
increasing the purchasing power of the masses by if you please - paying
tradesmen and servants higher wages!  Some had even suggested setting
up trade links with the long-dogs inhabiting the buried cities beyond
the Western Hills - but what else could one expect from chinamen who
had an abacus where their brains should be?

The greatest bar to progress was the immutable edict which forbade,
under pain of death, the reintroduction of the Dark Light.  It was also
a treasonable offence for lesser mortals to utter its name and such was
the dread it inspired, even those at the pinnacle of power only did so
with the greatest circumspection.  According to the scrolls which
chronicled the distant past, the creation of the Dark Light electricity
- had corrupted mankind and led the gods to destroy The World Before
with a tidal wave of golden fire.  A wave that had engulfed the ancient
homeland of the Iron Masters, and which was so high, it had covered the
peak of Fuji, the sacred mountain which contained the soul of Nippon.

As a result, there was a deeply-held belief that to seek to resurrect
the Dark Light would be an act of incredible folly which would once
again place the world in mortal peril.

But, as Ieyasu knew, the world of Ne-Issan was bordered by the
Appalachians and the Eastern Sea.  There was another vaster world
beyond the Western Hills, inhabited by grass-monkeys and long-dogs:
Plainfolk Mutes and Trackers - the soldier-citizens of the Amtrak
Federation.  The Mutes were hairy savages, semi-nomadic hunters with no
craft skills beyond those needed to support their simple mode of
life.

All their edged-weapons, crossbows and metal implements were supplied
by the Iron Masters.  But the Trackers were warriors who had no fear of
the Dark Light.  It was the life-force of their underground society.

It enabled them to send images and voices through the air, it powered
their weapons, their giant, caterpillar-like land-cruisers and their
sky-chariots - war-machines which entered the cloud-realm of the kami
with impunity and were not cast down.

Their presence posed a threat to the world of Ne-Issan yet
Amaterasu-Omikami stood aside and did nothing.  Their underground
cities were not crushed, and the world beyond the Appalachians was not
ravaged by heavenly fire - a theological conundrum that was studiously
ignored by the leading sages of the Shinto priesthood.

Ieyasu knew the answer.  The Dark Light was neither good nor bad.

Electricity was a power that lay at the heart of the natural world.  It
could be captured by special, cunningly-wrought machines and conveyed
along special threads from one place to another, or shot through the
air like an invisible arrow that flew across plains, mountains.

and seas within the space of a single heartbeat.

Like all power, it could be used and abused.  It could corrupt, in the
same way that sake addled the brains of drunkards and opium destroyed
the will of addicts.  But in its pure state, it was not inherently
evil.  Electricity had been created to be the slave of man.  Only if
the man was weak could the slave became his master.  Ieyasu had certain
foibles but he was not a weak man.  He enjoyed the attendant luxury his
privileged birth and high rank afforded him but he was consumed by
nothing except the desire to manipulate the reins of power to the
ultimate benefit of the Toh-Yota family and the Shogun.

In that order.  Ieyasu ate well, drank judiciously, and kept his gaunt,
aging body in trim by practising his swordsmanship.  He enjoyed male
and female company and could still produce a commendable erection which
a select circle of court ladies - ever anxious to advance themselves or
the careers of their husbands - accommodated by supplying him with a
string of pubescent nymphets.

The Dark Light might kill him but it would never enslave him.  Ieyasu
knew this because it had served him well over many years.  Key members
of his private network of secret agents had been using high-powered
radio transceivers and other electronic devices for the last ten
years.

The same type of equipment used by the secret agents of the Federation
and which, after a series of stealthy contacts, had been supplied by
them to Ieyasu's organization under the terms of a secret protocol
signed by him and Commander-General Karlstrom, the head of AMEXICO.

Among the items covered was the return of any mexican caught by the
Plainfolk Mutes and sold to the Iron Masters.  Other clauses outlined
mutually-beneficial arrangements for the pooling of specific types of
information, for example - the kinds of weapons the Iron Masters
planned to supply to the Mutes by way of trade and, in return, any
snippets of information which could help Ieyasu head off any bid to
topple the TohYota shogunate.

A final clause set out the arrangements for joint operations between
the two spy networks.  It was here that AMEXICO's help had proved
invaluable.  There were certain locations which, for various reasons,
Ieyasu's home-grown agents were unable to penetrate or where they could
not operate effectively.  The wheel-boats operated by the Yama-Shita
family were one example.  The vetting procedures were so strict it was
impossible to slip an outsider into the crew.  The only alternative was
to buy the allegiance of someone already serving the family but
experience had shown this to be a costly and highly unreliable way of
doing business.

Karlstrom had supplied the answer: the insertion of mexicans,
disguised as Mute slaves, and armed with a working knowledge of
japanese and other asiatic languages into sensitive locations.  Ieyasu,
after some initial misgivings, had accepted the offer.  And it had
worked.

As non-persons, slaves were regarded as part of the brickwork, and
since no outlander was permitted to utter a word of the Iron Master's
sacred tongue, people talked in front of them without ever suspecting
their conversation was being monitored.  Disguised slaves could not, of
course, penetrate the secret council chambers of high-ranking plotters
but they were the source of a surprising amount of raw intelligence.

And many of the council chambers were no longer secret thanks to the
electronic bugging devices obligingly supplied by AMEXICO.

So far it had paid off, but it was a dangerous game.  A balancing act
which placed Ieyasu on a tightrope over a pool of hungry sharks.  For
not only had he approved the use of devices filled with the Dark Light,
he had even sent some of his most trusted men to help perfect the
language skills of Karlstrom's agents!

His opposite number, the head of AMEXICO - who also spoke fluent
japanese - had never sought to press for an advantage.  'The emphasis
had always been on mutual cooperation but Ieyasu knew that if one of
the two copies of the secret protocol with his name and seal attached
ever reached the Shogun, his hold on the reins of power would be
abruptly severed.  And so would his head.  His own death in the proper
course of events did not concern him, but his precipitate departure
from office followed by the elimination of his closest aides would
leave a dangerous vacuum in the highest councils of the land.

A vacuum that a host of undesirables would rush to fill.

In the few years left to him, Ieyasu had to make the best possible use
of this unique contact with a potential enemy state without
compromising the long-term interests of Ne-Issan or betraying its most
cherished beliefs.

A lesser wrong for a greater good.

As a pragmatist, Ieyasu had no problem with that.  Like all
aristocratic Iron Masters, conspiracy was in his blood.

The history of Ne-Issan was a catalogue of internecine feuds and
labyrinthine treachery.  Even so, there were times when he found it
difficult to reconcile his dual roles as master spy and Court
Chamberlain of the ToYota shogunate with his blood-ties to the entire
japanese ruling class.  This was a primal allegiance that went beyond
pure reason and, as such, could not be ignored.  Up until now he had
been able to override this inner conflict, but in the spring of 2991,
he learned of an event which placed him in a considerable dilemma.

In the autumn of the previous year, mexicans disguised as slave workers
had -'with his tacit approval - sabotaged an'attempt to build flying
horses; a project masterminded by the Yama-Shita and Min-Orota families
who were also laying plans to overthrow the Toh-Yota Shogunate.  The
sabotage operation had been a remarkably bloody affair - and so had its
aftermath.  Hundreds had perished, foot-soldiers, cavalry, samurai,
nobles from both families and Domain-Lord Hirohito Yama-Shita who, by
all accounts, had died in a particularly gruesome manner.

Ieyasu's agents had been instrumental in helping the five saboteurs to
leave the country but their departure had not been the end of the
story.  Judged guilty of seeking to resurrect the Dark Light, several
leading members of the Yama-Shita family were given the chance to take
their own lives; others, of lower rank, were executed, fines were
levied and economic sanctions applied.

Armed resistance against the government was out of the question.  The
judgment against the family had been rendered by its peers; a committee
of powerful domain-lords including several of its closest allies whose
neutrality had been purchased by giving them valuable pieces of the
Yama-Shita trading empire.

All this had been done yet it had not brought the Yama-Shita to heel.

They wanted revenge.  Not against the Toh-Yota.  Without its two main
allies, the Ko-Nikka and the Se-Iko - the beneficaries of the Shogun's
largesse - the shogunate and the traditionalists now held the balance
of power.  It would take years to win back its former supporters and
longer still before they were ready to even the 'score.  No .  . . the
family's thirst for revenge was directed against the five assassins the
outlanders who had killed their domain-lord and brought the house of
Yama-Shita to its knees.  They could not have done their bloody work
without highly-placed friends inside Ne-Issan.  If this murderous gang
could be captured alive, they would soon reveal the identity of their
masters...

Ieyasu did not need the bug planted inside the council chamber of the
Yama-Shita's palace at Sara-kusa to tell him how they had reasoned.  He
merely had to put himself in their place.  The last-minute decision by
the Shogun not to attend the flying display at the Heron Pool pointed
to his complicity in the murderous onslaught unleased by the
assassins.

An onslaught which - in the minds of the Yama-Shita family - had been
stage-managed by Ieyasu.

Not exactly true, but close enough.  Ieyasu had not known in detail
what the saboteurs intended to do; he had merely allowed the operation
to go ahead.  Had he known more, he might have acted otherwise.  Using
communication devices and 'hired' agents was one thing; allowing those
same agents and Mute witches to murder highborn japanese citizens with
impunity was something else entirely.

The events which had led to this indiscriminate killing were, arguably,
an example of a delicate political problem that could not have been
solved in any other way, and with such brutal swiftness.  But there
were limits beyond which Ieyasu was reluctant to go in his desire to
preserve the shogunate.  The Heron Pool incident marked the top of a
slippery slope he had no wish to descend.  And now, in the spring of
2991, the long-dogs had attacked again.

Only this time, they had struck first and told him afterwards.

A wheel-boat of the Yama-Shita family, carrying a large number of
samurai and foot-soldiers towards the western shore of Lake Mi-shiga
had been sunk with the loss of all hands Karlstrom, in sending his
apologies, had explained that there had been no time to seek his
approval.  At the very last minute, AMEXICO had received news that the
Yama-Shita intended to launch a military operation against a clan of
Mutes that was sheltering the agents who had sabotaged the Heron
Pool.

No one could condemn the Yama-Shita family's desire for revenge, said
Karlstrom, but it was, under the laws of Ne-Issan, an illegal act of
war.

True.  But even so, regardless of the circumstances, the loss of 250
samurai, 300 red-stripes and 150 officers and crew was an act of
violence that was difficult to condone: an affront to the pride of the
entire nations.  Had the attack gone ahead, it would have been a
criminal act for which the Yama-Shita would have been duly punished.

But it was equally reprehensible for the long-dogs to take the law into
their own hands.  To engineer the death of over seven hundred soldiers
of Ne-Issan in order to save five of their agents and a clan of
grass-monkeys was a totally disproportionate response.  Secret agents
were treasured assets but their duties also included a readiness to
die.  AMEXICO's action against the wheel-boat had seriously damaged the
existing relationship to the point where Ieyasu was beset with grave
doubts about its future.

There was also another problem.  Should he tell the Shogun about the
illegal expedition mounted by the Yama-Shita?  Or should he remain
silent about the whole affair and accept the announcement from the
palace at Sara-kusa that a wheel-boat supplying the new outstations on
Lake Mi-shiga had been lost with all hands during a violent storm?  To
reveal the truth - or part of it - would place Yoritomo under an
obligation to impose further sanctions.

Ieyasu was reluctant to increase the pressure on the family.  The death
of Domain-Lord Yama-Shita and the exposure of the plot to resurrect the
Dark Light had strengthened the position of the Toh-Yota.  Its most
powerful rival had been humbled, but they still commanded a great deal
of covert support.  Applying more sanctions would be seen as an attempt
to completely destroy the family - a move that would arouse suspicion
and resentment among the other domain-lords.

In their eyes, the deaths of the named conspirators and their closest
relatives and the harsh fines had expunged the family's guilt.  Any
further attempt to crush the YamaShita would be seen as a threat to all
those who supported its progressive ideals.  No one wanted to create
conditions that could lead to another civil war.  As the first among
equals, the Toh-Yota had to be strong but not too strong.

And since it could not singlehandedly sweep all opposition aside, it
had to maintain the balance of power by a mixture of skilful government
and skulduggery - two areas in which Ieyasu was the acknowledged
master.

After lengthy reflection, Ieyasu decided to say and do nothing.  He
would, for the moment at least, leave the dilemma posed by his
relationship with Karlstrom unresolved.  He had not lost all sense of
honour.  It was simply that his self-esteem was of minor importance
compared with the maintenance of the Toh-Yota shogunate.

As long as he, Ieyasu, was alive, Yoritomo could be left in charge of
the moral high ground.  His task was to underpin the succession by
ensuring that the opposition remained fragmented.  His legacy would be
to imbue Yoritomo with the determination to gradually reduce the
YamaShita to penury, redistribute their lands and drive them into
political obscurity like the once-great Da-Tsuni.

To aid Yoritomo in this task, Ieyasu's successor needed to retain
access to the same alien devices that had enabled the present spy
network to function so efficiently.

The links with AMEXICO would not be severed but, equally, they would
not be extended and the existing arrangements would have to be more
tightly controlled.

Karlstrom would have to understand that the indiscriminate killing of
high-ranking Iron Masters by outlanders - no matter what the
circumstances - could no longer be countenanced.

The presence of a Mute witch among the team of saboteurs at the Heron
Pool and this latest action against the wheel-boat in defence of a clan
of Mute fisherfolk were discordant notes in what until then had been a
harmonious relationship.  Similar, in many respects, to the trading
contacts built up by Iron Master and Mute over several decades;
contacts which had subsequently received the covert blessing of
AMEXICO.

Having invested a great deal of time, money and effort, the Iron
Masters regarded the Plainfolk Mutes as their own milch cow.  These
illiterate animals could never be allies but they had been accorded the
status of auxiliaries.

That was why they had been armed instead of being enslaved in the hope
they could slow down the northwards advance of the Federation.  But had
the ground rules changed?  Were these two disquieting incidents the
product of another 'understanding'?  Another secret protocol signed by
one or more of the competing Mute bloodlines and the smooth-tongued
head of AMEXICO?

Only time would tell.

In the palace-fortress of Sara-kusa, built on the site of the
pre-Holocaust city of Syracuse, N.Y, Aishi Sakimoto, acting Regent of
the Yama-Shita family, had been asking himself more or less the same
question and believed he now knew the answer.

In the normal course of events, the domain-lord's eldest son would have
assumed his father's title, but on the orders of the Shogun, Hirohito's
children had all died by their own hand, or had been killed by their
mother before turning the knife upon herself.

In some families, blood-feuds erupted when competing branches disputed
the succession but Domain-Lord Hirohito Yama-Shita had ruthlessly
eliminated all potential rivals.  He had ruled with an iron hand but
under his leadership the family, already rich, had prospered even
more.

Only now, with most of his immediate relatives dead, had come the
sombre realization that his murderous reign had eliminated most of the
candidates with the necessary strength, ability and drive to take his
place.

The qualities of leadership now displayed by Aishi Sakimoto had not
escaped the notice of his late nephew but he had survived, partly
because he was Hirohito's favourite uncle and a fairly ruthless
character himself.

But what had really saved him from assassination was the fact that he
was old and without issue, and was therefore not regarded as a threat
to the domain-lord's own family.

It was also the reason why the shaken survivors had appointed him to
head the council now running the family's affairs until one of their
number formally assumed the title.  In the present climate, the chosen
successor to Hirohito would not necessarily be the best man for the
job.  Ieyasu, the Lord Chamberlain had sent word that whoever was
chosen could only become domain-lord with the approval of the Shogun.

And everyone knew Yoritomo would not allow a strong candidate to take
the helm.

It was a bitter pill.  Never before had the family been forced to
endure such interference with their affairs.  The twin ancestors of the
Yama-Shita, the Yama-Ha and the Matsu-Shita had helped the Toh-Yota
defeat the Da-Tsuni.

They had been allies.  As part of the historic Seventh Wave, their
blood had mingled on the shore of the Eastern Sea.  But with the merger
of the two families to form one of the biggest domains in Ne-Issan they
had become rivals.  And their differences had been aggravated by
Hirohito's espousal of progressive ideals.

The domain formed by the merger was not significantly larger than the
territory held by the Toh-Yota.  The source of their unease lay in its
unique geographical position which gave it access to the the Great
Lakes and the Eastern Sea, borders that could be easily defended and,
above all, an enviable trading advantage.  Even though the Toh-Yota had
filled its own coffers by taxing the family's revenues, the steadily
increasing wealth and influence of the Yama-Shita had come to be viewed
as a threat to the Shogunate.

Lord Hirohito's overconfidence had led him to act prematurely.  He had
been right about Yoritomo.  Left to his own devices, the young Shogun
would not have been a problem.  He was his own worst enemy.  But
Hirohito had seriously underestimated Ieyasu's staying power.  With
Yoritomo's accession and his attempted clean sweep, Ieyasu's grip on
the Inner Court had been seriously weakened.  Many of his cronies had
been ousted and his place-men in the bakufu had been demoted or
pensioned off.  Everyone had confidently expected Ieyasu to follow them
out through the door to spend his last years pottering about the garden
or the library of his large estate.

But the old fox had hung on, and six years later, the foothold he had
managed to preserve had become a veritable stranglehold.  It had been
reported that he not only had the Shogun's ear, he had both ears pinned
against the wall.  The proof was there for all to see!

Yoritomo's fleet-footed manoeuvres in the wake of the Heron Pool
massacre bore all the hall-marks of the great conspirator.

Yes.  More positive action should have been taken at the beginning.  An
overt assassination attempt was out of the question but Ieyasu's
penchant for juveniles was no secret within court circles.  Instead of
gloating over the reports of his imminent removal from office on the
grounds of galloping senility, Hirohito should have slipped a couple of
well-schooled 'spring blossoms' into the old bugger's bed with orders
to stay on the job until they had fucked his brains out.

Well, it was too late now.  Hirohito had paid dearly for his mistake
and so had the family.  The account would be settled - with interest.

But it would be an uphill task.

Ieyasu would not last for ever, but it was clear that the young Shogun
could no longer be written off.  He had learned a great deal.  The
Yama-Shita would rise again but it would be many years before they
would be strong enough to dislodge the Toh-Yota.  He, Aishi Sakimoto,
would play his part, but the sweet moment of victory would not come in
his lifetime.  For the moment, they would have to content themselves
with punishing the clan M'Call and the rest of the She-Kargo
bloodline.

Thanks to a message sent from the wheel-boat soon after the unmasking
of the two Kojak 'guides', Sakimoto now knew that one of them was the
cloud-warrior that the M'Calls had sent to Ne-Issan escorted by a
female Mute.  It was not clear whether this female - who had last been
seen in the hands of the Min-Orota - was the unmarked white witch who
had murdered Lord Hirohito with her foul magic, but there was a
possibility they were one and the same.

When unmasked on the wheel-boat, the cloud-warrior had been disguised
as Mute.  His companion, whose skin was similarly marked, had been
identified as the grass-monkey who had become the cloud-warrior's
personal servant and had flown the first rocket-powered prototype.

In view of the expert way he had handled the craft he was probably
another skilfully-disguised long-dog.

As for the white witch, her true identity remained problematical.

Sakimoto knew of the rumours of Mute magic but he had discounted them
as Lord Hirohito had.  Now he was not so sure.  If the witch was not a
long-dog, then it meant that there were clear-skinned, smooth-boned
Mutes who - on the outside at least looked just like Trackers!

It was all very confusing.

There was, however, one aspect of this affair which was not bedevilled
by doubt.  A working connection between long-dog and grass-monkey had
been clearly established.

By piecing together the information gathered from the fisherfolk of
Lake Mi-shiga by the agents now stationed on the eastern shore,
Sakimoto knew the wheel-boat had been set afire and sunk by
flying-horses which could only have come from the Federation.  And the
first two assassins had arrived in Ne-Issan as emissaries of the Clan
m'call.  Under a deal struck by Lord Hirohito and a wordsmith called Mr
Snow, the clan had agreed to deliver a cloud-warrior and his
flying-horse in exchange for a hundred rifles!

Who could have guessed that this dull-eyed, oafish scum was capable of
such duplicity?  Never mind.  It would not go unavenged, and nor would
the crimes of the clan Kojak who - after the sinking of the wheel-boat
- had massacred all those who reached the shore.  But the first move
would be against the M'Calls - the link between the Plainfolk and the
Federation.  And this time, the operation had to be mounted without any
possibility of failure.

The family could expect no assistance from its few remaining friends in
an act of war that did not have government approval.  And in the
present climate, that was unlikely to be obtained without being forced
to hand over a large piece of the pie.  The only way round the problem
was to mask the attack by using Mute clans from the D'Troit bloodline,
the fiercest rivals of the She-Kargo.

Sakimoto was aware that slaughtering the She-Kargo trade delegations
would net very few of the real offenders.

The bulk of the clan M'Call was safely out of reach.  But this attack
was only the first step in a plan the family had been hatching for some
considerable time.

The harsh consequences of Lord Hirohito's misadventure had weakened the
family's power-base and it could only be rebuilt by implementing the
plan to expand its present boundaries.

Recruiting the D'Troit to do the spade work was part of that plan.  The
present fragmented nature of the Plainfolk which led to clans of the
same blood-line fighting each other was pointless and unproductive.

And the trading arrangements under which each clan annually supplied
varying-sized groups of 'volunteer' slave-workers was an inefficient
way of meeting the constant demand for labour.

They killed each other in the same haphazard way.

There was no master plan.  Warriors who triumphed in a clash of arms
did not go on to plunder the settlement of the losers.  The victorious
clan did not occupy its rival's land or slaughter the survivors.  It
did not even attempt to enslave them.  The winners simply went home
and composed fire-songs which extolled their prowess!

Part of the problem was the vastness of the territory at their
disposal.  There was too much land and too few people.  And because the
inhabitants were savages with a simple life-style, they did not need to
exploit the land's resources.  There was enough room for everyone, an
abundance of game and more raw material than anyone could possibly
need.  There was no need to conquer each other.  Mutes fought each
other because they were wedded to the warrior ethic.  It was a test of
courage, part of the process of natural selection.  Very laudable.

But all that ferocious energy should not be allowed to go to waste.  It
should be directed towards a loftier goal, not frittered away on
inconsequential skirmishes.

The Yama-Shita planned to provide that sense of direction by unifying
the disparate clans of the D'Troit and C'Natti bloodlines and creating
two vassal states.  Armed and advised by the Yama-Shita, they would
then subjugate their hated rivals, the She-Kargo, and the other lesser
bloodlines.  When this had been done, they would levy annual tributes
in the form of raw materials and able-bodied males and females.

Punitive tributes which would force this race of savages to toil from
dawn till dusk instead of idling their days away with smoke-.filled
dreams.  Work would be their saviour, not some invisible being called
Talisman.

As patrons and protectors of the D'Troit and C'Natti, the Yama-Shita
family would be the sole conduit for this new flow of materials and
labour.  It would generate unimaginable wealth- but only if each move
was carefully planned.  The treasonous acts of Lord Hirohito had robbed
the family of its exclusive right to trade with the grass-monkeys.

Licences had been awarded to its southern neighbours, the Ko-Nikka and
Se-Iko but it was YamaShita who controlled the entrances to the Great
Lakes and it was their navigators who knew what course to steer through
the deeps and shallows.  They had the know-how and the contacts, and
their fleet of giant wheel-boats dwarfed the vessels owned by the
Ko-Nikka.  The Se-Iko, whose domain was land-locked, only possessed
river craft.  For this first trip they had been obliged to lease two
boats and their crews from the Yama-Shita at exorbitant rates.  Both
families had placed orders for larger vessels but the Ko-Nikka's
shipwrights - who lacked the expertise needed to construct such large
vessels- were still wrestling with the problem of how to lay out the
bilges.

Sakimoto was content to let them stew in their own juice.  The family's
former allies had broken ranks in return for a share of the Great Lakes
trade and now they were learning that there was more to it than a
pretty piece of paper with the Shogun's seal on it.  The YamaShita
still had the edge on its new partners and they both knew that without
its assistance their own crews might return empty-handed.

From the signals coming into Sara-kusa, it appeared that some of the
wiser heads in both domains were already regretting the hasty leap onto
the Shogun's coattails.

If these veiled contacts were inspired by feelings of guilt then he,
Aishi Sakimoto, intended to exploit such sentiments to gain whatever
advantage he could.  Given their recent turn-about, he could not take
them into his confidence and it was not necessary.  They would serve
his purpose better by remaining independent witnesses.

They would be able to testify that the fighting at the trading post
broke out between the rival Mute bloodlines and it was only when the
conflict appeared to be getting out of hand that the Yama-Shita family
felt obliged to intervene in order to separate the warring factions and
protect the Iron Masters trapped on shore.  And if, in the course of
establishing a cease-fire, one faction suffered heavier casualties than
the other then that would be regrettable but unavoidable.

This had been Lord Hirohito's plan, and it was a good one.  In making
it, he had not been inspired by any particular animosity towards the
She-Kargo.  On the contrary.  Their pre-eminence was something to be
admired.  He had simply decided to back the D'Troit and the C'Natti
because their burning desire to become the paramount bloodlines of the
Plainfolk would tempt them into an alliance with the YamaShita.

But with his death at the hands of the white witch, the subjugation of
the She-Kargo was no longer just the initial phase in the economic
development of the Western Plains.  It had become an act of
vengeance.

And the first tribute to be exacted by the new vassal states on behalf
of their master would be the heads of the Clan m'call.

The M'Calls were also at the top of the hit-list drawn up by the
leaders of the Amtrak Federation.  The narrow escape of the wagon-train
known as The Lady from Louisiana in the Battle of the Now and Then
River in June 2989, and the subsequent disastrous attack which
destroyed a third of its wagons and crew in the November snows of 2990
had badly dented the Federation's image of invincibility.

It was a challenge that could not be ignored.  Such spirited resistance
by sub-human savages could not go unpunished.  The Clan m'call, the
group responsible for this outrage, had to be crushed.  Ground into
dust as an example of what happened to those who resisted the might of
the Federation.

The decision to annihilate the clan had been the easy part.  The
difficulties lay in its implementation.  The M'Calls were led by an
individual called Mr Snow said to be one of the most powerful summoners
ever born into the Plainfolk.

The ability to summon invisible forces present in the earth and sky
dynamic energy which flowed through their bodies and was shaped and
directed by their minds - was one of three attributes possessed by
certain 'gifted Mutes'.  Their rarity was something to be thankful for;
the ability to summon hurricane-force winds, 'sky-fire' and
'earth-thunder', and to levitate rocks weighing up to half-a-ton was
the most spectacular and dangerous form of what had come to be known as
'Mute magic'.

Summoners, seers - those gifted with the power to read the past and
foretell the future with the aid of seeing-stones - and wordsmiths
those born with prodigious memories - displayed mental abilities that
belied their primitive appearance and life-style.  They were highly
intelligent, and the powers they possessed - or could call upon defied
all rational explanation.

In due course an answer would be found through the rigorous application
of the recognized laws of physics, but in the meantime, faced with
something they could not master or understand, the First Family had
officially decreed that there was no such thing as Mute magic.

Any public utterance to the contrary was a Code One offence punishable
by death, and any overground unit that found itself on the receiving
end of Mute magic could not use it as an excuse for failing to achieve
its operational objectives.

Draconian measures which had been ruthlessly enforced.

And with good reason.  Maintaining a high degree of motivation among
units exposed to a hostile environment for months at a time in distant
work-camps and way-stations was no easy task.  And that included the
elite troops known as Trail-Blazers who crewed the wagon-trains.

Totally dedicated and highly disciplined, the TrailBlazer Division was
a cross between the battle-hardened WW2 generation of US Marines and
the Waffen-SS of the same period.  But even they had been known to lose
their grip when confronted by the awesome powers unleashed by a
summoner able to call upon the Seven Rings of Power.

Mr Snow, known as The Storm-Bringer, was one such individual - perhaps
the only one of his kind among the Plainfolk.  Thanks to the efforts of
Steve and Roz Brickman, Mr Snow's protegee, Clearwater, was now in the
hands of the Federation.  Well, almost.  To be more precise, she was in
the intensive care ward of the mobile field hospital hitched to the Red
River wagon-train now heading south out of Nebraska.

Clearwater, on past form, was rated as potentially even more dangerous
than Mr Snow, but after suffering massive wounding followed by major
surgery she was now under continuous sedation and, in the short term,
was not judged to be a threat while in transit aboard Red River or to
the Federation where the research staff of the Life Institute were
eagerly awaiting her arrival.

That left Mr Snow, summoner and wordsmith of the Clan m'call, and his
other young pupil, Cadillac Deville, apprentice wordsmith and seer.

Their capture (at planning level it was called 'their removal from the
equation') was to be the final phase in OPERATION SQUARE-DANCE,
masterminded by Commander-General Ben Karlstrom.

Karlstrom, a close relative of the President-General, was the
Operational Director of AMEXICO, the covert operations unit formed to
carry out assignments initiated directly from the Oval Office currently
occupied by George Washington Jefferson the 31st.

In late 19th century terms, AMEXICO combined the functions of the
American CIA, the Gestapo of Germany's Third Reich and the British
SAS.

Intelligence-gathering, state security, commando-style forays and
'judicial terminations' in parallel to, but without the knowledge of,
the recognized military police and army intelligence units.  Its agents
- known as mexicans - operated within the subterranean nation-state
ruled by the First Family and the blue-sky world above, and its
existence was the best-kept secret in the Federation.

The nine members of the Supreme Council were officially aware of the
general nature of the organization but they did not know the manpower
it employed, the resources it could call upon or the scope of its
activities.

Only Jefferson the 31st and Karlstrom knew the full score.  Others
could only speculate.  AMEXICO was the President-General's private army
and the impenetrable cloak of secrecy was essential because it was
sometimes called upon to eliminate potentially troublesome members of
the First Family.

To some readers, it may seem strange that disaffection of any sort
could exist in an enclosed totalitarian state in which every aspect of
the environment and its soldier-citizen's lives was controlled with
military precision and computerized efficiency from Day One.  But such
was the case.  Any reader with direct experience of the armed forces or
the electronics industry will know that 'military precision' and
'computerized efficiency' are mythical states which bear little
relation to what either system is able to deliver.

All monolithic power structures staffed by human beings are bound to be
less than perfect - especially one reliant on advanced technology - and
the Federation was no exception.  Nine hundred years of relentless
regimentation had failed to produce a First Family version of 'Soviet
Man'.  People at every level of the command structure still screwed up
and systems crashed with unfailing regularity.  Depending on your
attitude towards what the First Family was trying to achieve this was
either a matter of grave concern or grounds for celebration.  Proof of
the indestructibility of the human spirit; a ray of hope for the future
of mankind.

The founding Father, George Washington Jefferson the 1st, had known
this basic truth when he laid the foundations on which his vision of
the future was to be built.  'Only people fail, not the system', was
one of his two Delphic utterances emblazoned on every available
wallspace throughout the Federation and echoed daily on the nine public
video channels.  A phrase of cunning simplicity which had helped to
preserve the status quo by deflecting the blame for any shortcomings in
the system back onto the individual who raised his voice in protest
against the measures taken in its name.

To prevent these isolated cranks spreading their disaffection like a
virus through the body politic over which they presided, the First
Family had installed a number of fail-safe systems.  By the spring of
2991, these included an acoustic surveillance system code-named HYDRA
under which their entire underground empire had been wired for
sound.

Any location, at any level, could be monitored by keying its
coordinates into a command console.  It was possible for human
operators to listen in to conversations but the sheer logistics made
that impractical.  Most of the eavesdropping was controlled by COLUMBUS
using a given hit-list of suspects and hourly random samplings known as
'sound sweeps'.  Ordinary conversations were monitored but not
recorded: it was only when a speaker used a word or phrase listed in a
'subversive vocabulary' that the reels started turning.  The taped
conversations were then subjected to computer analysis, classified into
various categories according to the nature of the cconversation and
graded in terms of 'arrestability'.

It was only when this sifting process had been completed, that the
daily residue of hard cases - known as the action list - was displayed
on the screens of the operatives at HYDRA Central.

But the system, and its handlers, missed the big one.

Despite HYDRA and the nation-wide network of undercover agents the
Family were caught totally off-guard by the protest strike mounted by
the crews of the Federation's wagon-trains.  Organized and led by their
executive officers it had none of the characteristics of a popular
uprising led by dissidents, but it was, nevertheless, a rebellion; the
first serious challenge to the authority and wisdom of the First Family
for over six hundred years.

The protest, which was confined to Trail-Blazers on active duty aboard
the trains, was disciplined and unpublicised and the divisions's
so-called grievances were conveyed to CINC-TRAIN in a coded message
signed by twenty wagon-masters and their executive officers out of the
Federation's fleet of twenty-one.  Only the name of Red River Amtrak's
flagship - was missing from the roll.

The protesters had two demands.  First, official recognition of the
existence of Mute magic.  If, for reasons of state, this could not be
made public then it was to be admitted in secret session to the
wagon-train fraternity by representatives of the First Family.  Second,
the disciplinary charges brought against Commander Bill Hartmann and
the executive officers of The Lady- which had arisen from their
inability to combat the power of a Plainfolk summoner- were to be
dropped.  All crew members were to be fully exonerated and returned to
active duty in their previous posts without loss of seniority to
privileges.

There was no 'or else' but with 95% of its wagon-train force ranged
solidly behind the protest, the White House decided to roll with the
punch.  In a hurriedly-prepared videocast beamed exclusively to the
wagon-trains, Jefferson the 31st agreed to the rebel's requests within
forty-eight hours of their receipt.

It was an unprecedented concession; the first time an organized protest
had not been brutally crushed, but it was also a victory for both
sides.  The First Family had been wrestling with the problem of Mute
magic for the last two hundred and fifty years.

The decision to deny its existence had been taken by a long-dead and
buried Supreme Council.  At the time, it had not been a problem.  It
was the Southern Mutes who had then been the enemy.  The rumoured
existence of summoners had been reported by FINTEL, but on the few
occasions where their presence had been suspected, their intercession
had failed to halt the advance of the Federation.

The Family had therefore concluded that the alleged power of these
individuals did not'pose a serious threat to future operations.  The
danger came from uncontrolled rumours and wild speculation about Mute
magic within their own ranks.  But instead of ending all ill-informed
discussion of the subject, the imposition of sanctions had merely
driven it underground.

With the move north into Plainfolk territory the nature of the conflict
had changed.  The days of easy victories were over and the earlier
blanket denial of Mute magic had left the present leaders of the First
Family on the hook.  This was a chance to slide off it and score a few
Brownie points in the process.

Given the latest situation reports from Wyoming and Nebraska, the call
for the reinstatement of Commander Hartmann and his crew could not have
come at a more opportune moment.  Conceding to the rebel's demands
provided the First Family with an opportunity to bring its secret
OPERATION SQUARE-DANCE to successful conclusion.

That fact would only become apparent with hindsight, but it did not
mean that all would be forgiven and forgotten.  Hartmann and his
executives had been the catalyst which caused a simmering discontent to
crystallize into open rebellion.  The protest might have been
restrained, short-lived and totally justified, but it was a direct
challenge to the First Family's inalienable right to rule from the top
down.

What made it worse was the fact that the rebellion had been
well-organized and had not been foreseen.  Such appalling laxity on the
part of security services could not go unpunished.  Sooner or later
everyone concerned would be dealt with.  No one got the better of the
First Family and lived to tell the tale.  And among the first to learn
that harsh lesson would be the crew of The Lady from Louisiana.

CHAPTER TWO

Commander James Fargo, the wagon-master of Red River, had seen plenty
of Mutes at close-quarters during his time on the overground but they
had all been dead, dying, or framed in his gun sights.  Killing Mutes
was what he had been trained to do.  He had never once imagined that a
day would come when he was required to play host to two live
lump-heads.  But they were here.

Cosseted aboard Red River.

It was a strange feeling.  As far as he knew, this was the first time
Mutes had ever sullied the interior of a wagon train with their
poisonous presence, and it was a dubious honour he would have preferred
to do without.

But orders were orders.  Even so, he felt he should have been taken
into the confidence of his other guests, a seven-man task-force from
the White House complete with their own secure lines of
communications.

From the moment the two Mutes had come aboard, it was clear they were
not true lumpheads and - to judge from the flurry of coded signals
flowing between the task force and Grand Central - might be something
else entirely.

As the top-rated wagon-train in the Federation, Red River had, for many
years, been involved in the delivery and collection of a number of
individuals whose reason for being on the overground had never been
fully explained but who were clearly engaged in some form of covert
activity.  Since the soldier-citizens of the Federation were members of
one vast army whose chain of command led back to the White House, these
individuals had to be working for the First Family but, to date, no one
had ever discovered the name or the precise function of the unit they
belonged to.

Fargo knew it was unwise to enquire further.  No one

reached the top spot on the Federation's premier wagon-train without
learning that at a very early age.  As an exemplary product of the
system, Fargo believed that if a man wasn't party to secret information
then he had no business prying into it.  The First Family told you
everything you needed to know when it was time for you to know it.

This unquestioning attitude did not mean that the commander of Red
River was a colourless, mindless automaton.  Initiative and
intelligence were part of the job profile.  Fargo's unswerving
allegiance to the Federation was comparable to Reinhard Heydrich's
total commitment to the genocidal policies of Hitler's Third Reich.

And like the latter, he had a distinctive personality and a mind of his
own.  But any reservations he had about the way the First Family ran
things (and they were very few) was something he kept strictly to
himself.

The first of his visitors had been flown in following a night pick-up
by the White House task-force using Skyhawks supplied by Red River.

One of their number was a 17-year-old Junior Medical Officer named on
the detachment order as Roz Brickman.  Since she had little experience
of battle-field injuries, three members of Red River's own surgical
team had flown out with her, riding the buddy-frames attached to the
fuselages of the five-plane formation.

The badly-wounded Mute had been brought back lashed to the spare berth
and had undergone immediate surgery.  In the only direct message he had
received from CINC-TRAIN, Fargo had been instructed to put the crew and
services of Red River at the disposal of the task-force.  He had done
so.  The female Mute - logged aboard as ALPHA-BRAVO - was now in
intensive care with the Brickman girl at her bedside.  Mitch - Michelle
French, Red River's immensely able CMO, who had performed the major
part of the surgery rated her chances at no better than 5050.

Some thirty-six hours after Red River's first unwelcome guest had flown
in, the second had arrived under his own steam.  Or, to be more
precise, on the back of a four-legged animal that Fargo - like the rest
of his crew - had been told was extinct.

Code-named YANKEE-ZULU by the secretive task-force, the smooth-boned,
fair-haired Mute had made his approach in broad daylight astride a
horse, with two similar beasts in tow.  Fargo had relayed the video
pictures through the train so that his crew could share the experience
of seeing these living relics of a bygone age.

Since he was also required to take the horses on board, there was
little point in trying to keep their presence secret.  But as he
watched them being led towards the train, Fargo could not help asking
himself the inevitable question.  If COLUMBUS held the wrong data on
horses, what other errors had it made?

Fargo erased the question and its consequent uncertainties from his
mind.  COLUMBUS had not made a mistake.  The First Family, in its
wisdom, had instructed it to withhold the information.  And there would
be a good reason for doing so.

Although unhurt, YANKEE-ZULU was now in the blood-wagon - the
fully-equipped field-hospital that was.

an integral part of each wagon-train.  The medical staff was
accommodated on the ground floor along with stores and small lab units,
The second floor contained an operating theatre, pre- and post-op, IC,
x-ray and ultra-sound units and a clinic for treating minor wounds and
ailments.  The top floor contained three medical wards, designed to be
self-contained if the need arose.

The task-force, led by someone labelled as WALLIS, DONALD, E, had taken
over aft-section, sealing itself off behind the sound-proofed
partitions with its special radio equipment.  ALPHA-BRAVO, still
unconscious after her ordeal on the operating table, was in one of the
cubicles of the intensive care unit on the floor below.

Fargo could not help wishing he knew what was being discussed behind
those closed doors.  He was too disciplined to display his feelings in
front of his crew but he was more than a little put out by the thought
that after eighteen years service in the field he was still denied
knowledge of secret operations of which Red River was an integral
part.

And - as if to add insult to injury the three horses he had obligingly
taken on board were pissing buckets and dropping large steaming piles
of crap all over one of his spit and polished cargo floors.

Steve gazed down at the sleeping figure inside the sterile plastic
tent.  A breathing tube that reached down into her larynx had been
inserted between her pale lips.

Her mouth and nose were covered by a clear oxygen mask.  There were
drip feeds in her arms, drainage tubes from internal organs, and wires
linking her to electronic monitoring equipment.  Clearwater was a long
way from Mr Snow's herbal mash remedies.  Another world...

Her olive brown skin had taken on a deathly pallor.

She had no head wounds but someone had cropped her long dark hair, and
they'd done it badly, leaving it looking like a porcupine who'd
blundered into a chainsaw.  But she still looked beautiful, her head
and neck resting on a single pillow, miraculously untouched by the hail
of bullets.

Steve, who had kept vigil over her broken, bloodstained body, tried not
to think of the splintered bones and ruptured flesh that lay beneath
the covers.  A body so fragile, a curved frame had been placed over it
to support the weight of the top sheet.

He turned to Roz.  The sides of their bodies came into contact as they
gave each other a supporting hug.  'Is she going to make it, little
sister?"

Roz grimaced.  'At the moment, her chances are no more than even.  When
the surgical team saw the state she was in they were amazed she'd
survived for so long.

In fact, there were a couple of times they nearly lost her on the
table."

'And all because of a stupid, fucking argument - that I provoked."

Steve broke away and raised his hands in despair.  'Why?!  Ohh, Roz!

If she's crippled for life I'll never forgive myself!"  Roz flashed him
a warning glance and touched her ear to remind him that someone might
be listening to their conversation.  'Guilt is a recognized symptom of
shock,' she said, adopting her best bedside manner.  'After all you
came close to getting killed yourself.  It was a pilot from Red River
who gunned her down.  You and I just did what we had to do."

'Yeah, you're right,' said Steve, cottoning on.  He looked down at
Clearwater then eyed the screen monitoring her weak heartbeat.  'Would
it be all right if I just held her hand for a minute?"

'Yes, but very gently- okay?"  Roz gathered up the side of the sterile
tent and lifted the sheet.  Clearwater's right hand lay palm up outside
the metal frame.

Steve knelt down and sandwiched her hand between his own.  The flesh
was moist, the fingers limp.  He pressed his palm against hers and
tried to reach into her mind, tried to channel his life force into her
body.  He'd done the same thing in the deserted renegade camp in a
desperate effort to infuse her with the will to live as they waited for
Roz and the Red River medics to arrive.

'We've got to save her, Roz."

'We will.  Don't worry.  Everything that can be done will be done."

Then, for the benefit of the hidden microphones she added: 'You and I
aren't the only people with a vested interest in keeping her alive."

'No .  . ."

Roz smiled.  'And if you think this happened just because you got into
an argument with Cadillac then I should take some of the blame.  After
all, the argument was over me."

'That's true."  Steve laughed for the first time since they'd been
reunited.  'You've been nothing but trouble ever since you were
born!"

He parried her playful punch and looked down at Clearwater's hand in
time to see the fingertips twitch then curl slowly upwards against the
side of his hand.  'Roz!  See that?!"  'Yes.  Take a look at the
screen."

The weak green trace of Clearwater's heartbeat had changed.  Not
dramatically, but every fourth pulse was a little deeper, a little
stronger than the others.

Steve's spirits soared.  'D'you think she knows I'm here?!"  Roz
caressed the back of his head.  'Yes, I'm sure she does."  But not
because you are holding her hand.  She knows because I am within her as
I am within you...

In the sealed ward above the intensive care unit, Don Wallis motioned
Steve and Roz to take the facing seats in the middle of the table where
they were sandwiched between the six-man team from AMEXICO.  Wallis,
the team leader, sat at the head of the table on Steve's right.  Jake
Nevill, his Number Two, was at the other end.

It was Nevill who had flown out with Roz zipped onto the buddy-frame of
his Skyhawk.  While she and the Red River medics were busy with
Clearwater, he and Steve had given each other the buzz.  Satisfied he
was talking to the right man, Nevill told Steve he had been assigned
the temporary code-name of YANKEE-ZULU while on board the wagon-train:
his AMEXICO code-name was never to be disclosed to anyone outside the
organization.

The task-force of mexicans was disguised as a special detachment from
the White House, complete with fake ID-cards, name-tags and the
distinctive blue and white badge on the shoulders of their camouflaged
fatigues.

It was, explained Nevill, standard procedure when operating alongside
regular army units.

As a JMO, Roz was wearing hospital whites with her name tag, surmounted
by miniature lieutenant's rank stripes, tacked onto a Velcro patch
above her right breast pocket.

Steve, after a long, hot shower and a medical examination designed to
make sure he had not contracted some unspeakable overground infection,
had been given a set of Trail-Blazer fatigues with no name-tag or
badges.

Since he still had his long ragged hair, rat-tail plaits and
multi-coloured skin markings, the effect was bizarre.  The task-force's
bewildered reaction on first seeing him in uniform reminded Steve of
his painful encounter with It .  Harmer at the Pueblo way-station.

This time however, no one tried to pulverize his liver with the butt
end of a rifle.

How much does Roz know about all this?  he wondered.

In the few brief moments they had spent together since boarding Red
River he had been so concerned about Clearwater, he hadn't even asked
Roz how she came to be on the wagon-train.  He had just been thankful
she'd been close at hand when he needed her.  It was probably wiser to
say nothing at this stage.  Her silent reminder that Clearwater's
cubicle might be bugged had jerked him back to the reality of the
Federation.  The fear that whatever you said might be recorded and used
in evidence against you.

Maybe, when the time was right, she would come through on their private
line.  She was the expert.  Steve, who had wilfully neglected his
telepathic gifts, was still restricted to the channel used for
broadcasting MayDay messages.

Wallis aligned his electronic memo-pad with the edge of the table,
cleared his throat and began: 'Steve, ahh this first session is
essentially a debriefing.  You've met Jake.  I don't think we need
formal introductions.  The names are on the labels."

Steve said hello to George Hannah and Cai Parsons who sat across the
table on either side of Roz, and to Daryl Coates and Torn Watkins who
sat on his left and right respectively.

'They're all members of the organization, and in case you feel a little
tongue-tied, Roz has been made an honorary member."

Steve eyed Roz then looked blankly at Wallis.

'It means she doesn't have a code-name or a call-sign,' said Wallis.

He fingered his left earlobe in a seemingly absent-minded gesture.

'Got it..."  Steve smiled at Roz.  'I had no idea."

'Well, you know what I'm like - always dying to know what you're up
to."  Roz's face bore just the merest hint of a smile but Steve knew
that inwardly she was savouring the exquisite irony of the situation.

'Hey!  Come on, you two - snap out of it!"  exclaimed Nevill.

Steve ignored him and turned to Wallis.  'You were saying?"

'I've been asked to congratulate you both,' said Wallis.

'That message comes jointly from the Operational Director and the Oval
Office.  Initially there was some concern that the goods had been
damaged in transit but ALPHA-BRAVO's disablement probably makes the
task of shipping her back to Grand Central a lot easier.  As Roz has
probably told you, it's early days yet, but given the level of medical
support available here and down the line, I've been assured that if our
target survives the next two weeks, she has every chance of making a
full recovery."

'Glad to hear my efforts weren't totally wasted,' said Steve.

'If she needs any other specialists, they can fly out and treat her on
the return trip."

Steve's eyes met Roz's briefly.  With six people watching them they had
to tread carefully.  'Return trip...?"

'Yes,' said Wallis 'We were planning to airlift her into the Federation
but Red River's CMO has advised against it.  And I agree.  We made that
night pickup because we were in a life-or-death situation but it would
be crazy to risk losing such a valuable asset between here and Grand
Central.  This is the safest way for her to travel.  So as soon as we
know what your plans are, we're going to run for home."

Steve weighed up the other members of the task-force then came back to
Wallis shaking his head.  'No.  Sorry.

You're going to have to call Mother and tell him you can't dO that."

'Oh?  Why?"

'Because I need Red River to stay here with Clearwater on board.  She's
the bait that will lure the other two into the net."

Wallis pursed his lips.  'You mean Cadillac and Mr Snow .  . ."

'Yes."  Steve looked at Roz, but apart from listening with interest,
like everyone else, she did not respond.

'You had Cadillac - knocked out cold - and you let him go,' This was
Nevill again.

'I let him go because he's the one who will bring Mr Snow to us,' said
Steve patiently.  'I need a month to get things organized.  Six weeks
at the outside."

'Six weeks?!"  cried Nevill.

'That's not very long when you consider it's taken me a year to put
this together."

'Christo!  Just to kidnap three lumpheads?  If someone had given me the
job I'd have winkled 'em out inside forty-eight hours."

'With an airborne snatch-squad?"

'Yeah.  They'd be back in Grand Central before they knew what hit
'em."

Steve looked impressed.  'That certainly would have been a remarkable
feat of logistics.  One of the trio was in Wyoming, the others were in
two separate locations in Ne-Issan - held by people opposed to our
friends who run the local network."

'Quite,' said Wallace hurriedly.  He was the only person at the table
who knew what Steve was alluding too and it was a subject he wanted to
put a cap on.  Attempting to be diplomatic he added: 'I don't think
you've fully appreciated who it is we're dealing with, Jake."

'Exactly,' said Steve, opting for a head-on collision instead of
conciliation.  'Have you ever come up against a summoner?  Actually
seen them channelling earth magic through their bodies?"

'No, but-' Steve cut across Nevill's reply and addressed the other
mexicans.  'Have any of you?"

They all shook their heads.

'Well, I have.  I've been on the'receiving end when I was on board The
Lady from Louisiana in 2989 ' 'I think we've all read the report on
that one,' said Wallis, trying to keep his team's end up.

'But I've also seen them make it happen.  Seen 'em make rocks fly, blow
away half a hillside, take control of someone's mind."

Steve described the death of Lord Yama-Shita.  How Clearwater had made
him drive his sword repeatedly through his body.  And each time, the
blade had sunk in right up to the blood-drenched hilt.  Eight killing
strokes, one for each of the Mutes he had condemned to death on the
giant iron-bound paddle of his wheel-boat.

Turning to Nevill, he said: 'Mr Snow's other name is the
Storm-Bringer.

That's not just a fancy title.  It means precisely what it says.  He'd
have blown your snatch-squad right out of the sky."

'But you, of course, know how to' handle him,' said Nevill.

Sarcastic sonofabitch ... Steve had run up against guys like Nevill
before.  There were some people who took an instant dislike to him and
no amount of sweet talk could bring them round.  They just did not
respond to treatment.  The important thing was not to get mad.

'Yes,' he replied.  'With Roz's help I think I can."

Wallis made another attempt to lower the temperature.

'Roz - what shape will ALPHA-BRAVO be in six weeks from now?"

'Clearwater?  She'll still be flat on her back.  All we've done so far
is stabilize her condition.  She needs several more ops and at least
four months convalescence before she's on her feet - assuming there are
no complications."

'Okay,' said Wallis.  'Let's move on.  Steve, why don't you beging by
telling us what happened from the time you took off from Long Point."

Steve recoiled.  'Wow... you mean everything?"

'Yes."

'How long have we got?"

'As long as it takes."

'Okay, uhh, before I start - do you happen to know if Kelso and Jodi
got home in one piece?"

'Jodi did,' said Wallis.  'Someone found the explosive charge strapped
to her chest and managed to pull the detonator out a split-second
before it was triggered.  It was the other that did the damage."

Steve nodded soberly.  'The transmitter was hidden under Kelso along
with the Pr."

'How did you know?"  asked Nevill.  'D'you put it there?"

'No.  It was a couple of days before I discovered the explosives were
missing.  That was when Cadillac told me what they'd done.  And later,
we heard a wagon-train had been blown apart."

'Yeah,' said Nevill.  'The Lady from Louisiana.  Your ex-crew-mates.

Nice gesture, Brickman."

Angered by this jibe, Steve's self-control snapped.

'You wanna know something?  I'm getting pretty sick of your smart-assed
remarks and your fucking innuendoes!

If you've got some beef you wanna get off your chest, come right out
with it!"  Nevill's jaw dropped.

'Whoa!  Hold it!"  said Wallis.  'I think we're getting a little ahead
of ourselves.  I'm sure Jake didn't intend to accuse ' 'Yeah?  Well, he
can take his accusations and shove them right up his ass!  I was the
one who was out there risking my neck for the Federation.  What the
fuck does he know about anything?  Desk-bound pratt!"  Nevill bounced
back, eyes blazing.  'You can spare us the war-torn hero routine.  Not
one of these guys around this table has less than five overground
assignments on his slate.  That's why we're here.  And as for what I
know about anything, Brickman, let me tell you this.

I know I'm a major and you're a jumped-up ensign whose lieutenant's
tabs are still hanging out to dry."

The mexican tapped his chest.  'I earned my promotion in the field, not
filling gravy-boats on the fucking mess deck.  So I'll say what I like,
when I like.  And when you next address me, lieutenant, you'll do so
with the respect you have been trained to show a senior officer!"

'Yes, sir, ma]or..."

'And no dumb insolence either!  I saw that look!"  Wallis made a
placatory gesture.  'Okay, that's enough.

If we're pulling rank, I'm the senior officer here.  And I'd like to
remind you all that this organization, unlike many regular army units,
places a premium on intelligence and a spirit of enquiry.  A readiness
to challenge assumptions instead of the usual knee-jerk responses
required from junior ranks.  It is mental discipline we look for, not
the kind instilled on the parade-ground and our executive body has,
traditionally, always encouraged the free and frank exchange of views '
'Fuck tradition!"  Nevill stabbed a finger at Steve.  'He may be billed
as a star turn but he's still a fucking wetback and no wet-back is
going to shit-talk me I' Wallis coughed.  'Okay, Jake, you've made your
point."

He made eye contact with Steve.  'Would you like to proceed?"

Steve gave them the full story.  With questions and answers, it took
over four hours, split into two sessions with a meal break in
between.

Steve took a rain check on the food, preferring to spend the allotted
time in the intensive care ward with Clearwater.  It was no great
hardship.  The trays sent up from the mess-deck of the adjoining wagon
contained standard Federation fare, tasteless, processed, vitaminized
pap.  After the food in Ne-Issan and the strong-flavoured fish and meat
served up by the Plainfolk, Steve found it quite uneatable.

Afterwards, when Steve concluded his account, Wallis said: 'Okay, so
Cadillac is on his way home.  Assuming you're still on the case, what's
your next move?"

'I've got to catch up with him.  Tell him what's happened."

Nevill stuck his oar in again.  'Isn't he going to be a little unhappy
when he hears you put his pet beaver on a wagon-train?"

Steve swallowed his irritation.  'unhappy?  He's gonna be bouncing off
the walls.  But that's his problem.  He's lucky she's still alive.

Don't worry.  I'll talk him round."

How're you going to do that?"  asked Wallis.  'If Clearwater's on board
Red River it's because you arranged to put her there.  How are you
going to get Cadillac to trust you when you're obviously working for
us?"

'Simple,' said Steve.  'I'll tell him the truth.  I didn't contact the
wagon-train.  I contacted Roz."

Wallis waved a finger at Steve and his kin-sister.  'Do the M'Calls
know about the link-up between you two?"

'No.  Only Cadillac and Clearwater.  Clearwater was watching from the
shore when the planes firebombed the-wheel-boat.  Cadillac was below
decks with me so he saw nothing.  By the time we surfaced the planes
had gone but eventually I had to come up with some kind of an
explanation.

The only way to remove any suspicion that I was still working for the
Federation was by telling them about the link between Roz and myself.

'The fact that the Federation had sent the planes to bomb the
wheel-boat meant that the First Family thought I was still working for
them.  Which, of course, led Cadillac to suspect Roz's motives.  So in
order to persuade him that we could both be trusted, I told him I'd
convinced Roz - who had complete faith in me - that I was still one
hundred per cent loyal.  Which was why you'd sent the planes to help us
escape."

'Did he buy it?"  asked Wallis.

'Yes, in his usual half-assed way.  We got away from the japs, I saved
his life but - you know what it's like -' Steve gave Nevill a sideways
glance, '- he's one of these guys who is never satisfied.  He's brave,
highly intelligent, possesses the most amazing mental capabilities, but
he just hasn't got his shit together."

'So what story are you going to lay on him?"

'He already knows that Roz came through to tell me she was on board Red
River.  I'll tell him the shock of seeing them both gunned down
triggered another contact between Roz and myself.  She knew immediately
what had happened and where we were, so I waited until she confirmed
that help was on the way then pulled out as the first plane dropped a
string of parachute flares.

'And I'll say that in a subsequent contact, Roz told me that Clearwater
was out of danger.  Cadillac will be suspicious but what the hell can
he do.  He has to go along with it because the only way he can keep
tabs on what's happening to her is through me and Roz.  And I will
continue to claim that I didn't arrange anything through official
channels.  I was never here.  How does it sound?"

The six-man task force exchanged thoughtful glances.

Steve found the silence of the middle four a little unnerving.  The
guys who listened but didn't say anything were the ones you had to
watch out for.  More often than not, it was they who were really
running the show.

Nevill shook his head dismissively.  'Too clever by half."

'Jake, ease up will you?  Give the guy a break."  Wallis came back to
Steve.  'It sounds good but you may have outwitted yourself.  Roz
couldn't have sneaked Clearwater on board Red River by herself.  It
could only have been with our full knowledge and cooperation.

And the reason Clearwater's still with us is because Red River's
surgical team spent nearly twelve hours putting the bits back
together."

'I'm not denying that."

Wallis threw his hands in the air.  'So we're back where we started.

If Roz is working with us, and you're working with Roz - why should
these Mutes trust you?"

'It's simple,' said Steve.

'I wish you'd stopped saying that,' snapped Nevill.

'You're switching sides so fast I've lost track of who's getting
shafted!"  Steve looked at his kin-sister then said: 'Roz is only
pretending to work for you."  Their eyes met again.  The message she
had beamed into his mind was so astonishing, none of the others would
realise he was telling the truth.

He glanced round the table and tried not to smile at his audacity.

'That's what I told Cadillac when he challenged me about her role in
the strike on the wheel-boat.  And when I discovered she was on Red
River, it reinforced my claim that she was a secret ally who, having
gained Mother's confidence, had persuaded him to put her on board the
wagon-train because she intended to go over the side and join up with
me at the very first opportunity."

Steve's gaze returned once more to his kin-sister.  'A claim that
Clearwater confirmed because Roz had already got inside her head and
was doing a number on her."

Wallis' eyes narrowed.  In briefing him, Karlstrom had never even
suggested such a bizarre possibility.  But in 'emphasizing the need to
keep her safe and secure at all times, he had warned him to be braced
for the unexpected.  Which was why the task-force had been sticking to
her like shit to a blanket.

'Go on .  . ."

'The next step is to convince Cadillac and Mr Snow that if we can find
a way of getting aboard Red River - maybe with the help of Malone's
renegades - then we can rescue both Roz and Clearwater.  And perhaps
even capture the train."

Torn Watkins, the mex on Steve's right broke his silence with a dry
laugh.  'D'you really think they'd suck on that?"

'If the plan Malone put forward was good enough, yes."

Wallis looked perplexed.  'But in the time-frame you're talking about,
Roz has said that ALPHA-BRAVO will still be too ill to be moved."

'I know that, and you know that,' said Steve.  'But they don't.  And
I'm not going to tell them."

'Let's run through this again."  Wailis placed his hands together in a
prayer-like gesture in front of his mouth and collected his thoughts.

'You're suggesting we let your two remaining targets and a group of
Mutes gain access to the wagon-train then we spring some kind of
trap."

'Right..."

'And once Cadillac and Mr Snow have been captured, and the other lumps
have been neutralized, We make it look as if' the attack has
succeeded.

All right so far?"  enquired Wallis.

'Perfect,' said Steve.

'At which point the rest of the clan will rush the wagontrain to get
their share of the pickings and ' 'Get it right in the kisser,' said
Nevill.

Wallis contained his annoyance at being interrupted.

'It's going to require meticulous planning.  I mean, we want these
lumps on the train but we don't want them running wild..."

'That's why we need time,' said Steve.  '(a) to set it up and (b) for
Malone to sell the idea to Cadillac."

'Why can't you do that?"  asked Nevill.

'Because of these personality problems I mentioned.

He doesn't wholly trust me.  But then, neither do you, major."

The challenge brought a smile to Nevill's face.  'I wouldn't go as far
as to say that.  I've read up on what you did at the Heron Pool and
I've got to hand it to you.

That was a first class operation.  And don't think I'm put off by that
paint-job you're wearing.  I've been down to the dye-works a couple of
times myself.  But I'm always a little wary about mexicans who get so
deep into their covers they end up bouncing beaver."

Steve controlled his anger.  'Go downstairs and take a look at her,
major.  Take a long, hard look then come and tell me, hand on your
heart how - if you didn't know already - you could tell she was a
Mute."

Nevill laughed.  'By the skin colours, of course."

Steve pushed his left sleeve halfway up towards his elbow and displayed
his hand and arm.  'They're dyes, major.  Just like these.  Underneath,
her skin is exactly the same as yours and mine.  All it takes to make
the switch is a few handfuls of pink leaves, crushed and dipped in
water.  Put her under a shower with someone like Roz and you wouldn't
be able to tell one from the other."

'It doesn't matter what she looks like on the outside.

On the inside, she's still a Mute."

Steve didn't let up.  'But doesn't it strike you as strange that a race
that's officially classified as sub-human can produce creatures that
walk, talk, look and think like real people?"

Wallis looked worried.  'Steve - I don't think this has any relevance
to ' 'With respect, sir, I think it's extremely relevant.

Major Nevill has questioned my reliability and, for good measure, has
thrown out a thinly-veiled accusation of misconduct.  My defence to
that hinges around the status of Mutes and their place in the scheme of
things.  They're the enemy.  They oppose everything the Federation
stands for.  There's no dispute about that ' 'Glad to hear it,'
muttered Wallis.

'But the presence of Mutes like Cadillac and Clearwater - who far from
being sub-human, are actually closer to being super-human - brings into
question everything the First Family has taught us about Mutes.

The Plainfolk have an answer to that question.  They claim that before
the Holocaust, Mutes and Trackers were members of the same society.

The same race.

Humankind."

Wallis intervened, his voice edged with anger.  'That's enough,
Steve!

These are very dangerous waters you're getting into."

'See what I mean about this guy?"  said Nevill.  'He tried to peddle
the same muddled-headed shit to the Board of Assessors."  He faced
Steve with a triumphant leer.

'What did she do to you, lieutenant - suck your brains out through your
dick?"

Steve was gripped by a sudden desire to throw himself across the table
at Nevili and punch the mex's teeth down his throat but Roz came into
his head and willed him to stay calm.  'You're right, major,' he said
amiably.

'I guess I asked for that.  When you been out on your own for as long
as I have, playing both sides of the track, it's sometimes hard to know
where the edges are.  ' 'We're aware of the problem,' said Wallis.

'That's why this temporary lapse of judgement will not go on the
record.  As for you, Jake, we might be able to get through this a lot
quicker and more constructively if you adopted a less aggressive
attitude.  We are not a Board of Assessors, and Steve is not on
trial.

The eight of us are all on the same team."

Nevill accepted this with a nod but he was not a happy man.

'Okay, let's get this meeting back on the rails.  Steve, you were
saying that Cadillac did not entirely trust you..."

'Call it a lurking suspicion.  His feelings are confounded by the fact
that I've got him out of several tight corners.

But like you said, he's not an idiot.  We couldn't have escaped from
Ne-Issan without help from the outside and there came a point where I
could no longer conceal that fact.  So I came clean - admitted I was an
undercover agent, sent out to capture the three of them.

And I told him I'd been forced to accept the assignment because the
Federation had threatened to kill Roz if I refused."

'And did he believe you?"  asked Wallis.

Steve shrugged.  'He went along with it.  It was the only way he could
get out of Ne-Issan.  I think he finally bought the story when we
knocked out Side-Winder and the mex pilots at Long Point and grabbed
the airplanes.

Things got better from there on in un-' 'until he and that Mute bitch
downstairs blew four of our aircraft out of the sky and planted
explosives on Kelso and Kazan!"  Nevill's eyes made it clear what he
thought of Steve's contribution to the war effort.

Steve took a deep breath before replying.  'I've already been through
this.  I didn't know Kelso and Jodi were primed to explode.  They
didn't even know themselves!

The Clan M'Call got badly burned by The Lady.  Cadillac and Clearwater
grabbed the opportunity to even the score.  But it was more than
that.

They were testing me.

They wanted to see which way I'd jump when they started killing my own
kind.

'I objected- violently- but only on the grounds that the strike against
The Lady wasn't necessary.  Any stronger reaction on my part would have
totally destroyed my cover.  But I couldn't have stopped Clearwater
from using her magic on those Skyhawks even if I'd wanted to."  He
turned to Nevill.  'When you acquire some firsthand experience of
summoners, you'll understand why.

At one point in the battle at the Heron Pool, there were fifty to sixty
samurai trying to cut her down.  The guys with swords never got within
striking distance, and the arrows just bounced off this wall of light
she'd wrapped around herself."

Nevill's mouth twisted into a tight-lipped grin.  'And after all that,
some guy in a Skyhawk heading for home, clears the drum on a bunch of
breakers - and here she is.

Few dozen well-placed rounds.  That's all it took."

'A fluke.  A million to one chance that paid off because her mind was
engaged elsewhere,' said Steve.  'But don't worry, I know what you're
getting at."  His voice hardened.

'You still think these three could have been lifted without all this
hassle.  Isn't that right, major?"

Nevill caught Wallis' warning glance and held up his hands.  'Just
exercising my traditional right to engage in a free and frank exchange
of views..."

'Jake doesn't like sensitives,' explained Wallis.

Steve smiled.  'I'm not too happy about being one myself."

'I've always held there's nothing in this world that a bullet won't
cure."

It was clear from Wallis' expression that this was an old bone of
contention.  'Yes, well, you keep saying that Jake, but we both know
that the committee which is presently studying the tactical use of
psionics takes an entirely different view."

'They would, wouldn't they?"  Nevill saw Wallis' brow darken.  He
turned to Steve.  'So tell us - after the hit on the wagon-train, did
relations between you and Cadillac get any better...?"

'Yes.  When we started our westward run he had other things to think
about.  By this time he was into his 'I'm the leader of The Chosen
routine'.  I went along with it.  Everything was fine until we ran into
Malone, and Cadillac ran out of sake then shortly after that I got this
flash from Roz.

'Mother had put her on board Red River and had sent her north to help
neutralize Clearwater.  By sending the train into Nebraska and having
it move parallel to our line of advance Mother hoped Roz would be able
to help keep my mind clear.  To prevent Clearwater from doing to me
what she'd done to Kelso and Jodi."

Nevill laughed drily.  'That's why you were strip-searched before we
let you up the ramp."

'Wise move.  Anyway, maybe it was a bad mistake, but I told Cadillac
that Roz had made contact and that she was on Red River.  And because
of the story I'd fed him before about being pressurized into this job
by threats to her life I had to come out with this idea of trying to
rescue her.  It would have seemed odd if I'd-passed up a
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity without making a positive response.  I
didn't have any clear idea how it could be done, it was all off the top
of my head.  But I suggested that if the M'Calls got together with
Malone's renegades - maybe in some kind of disguise - we might just be
able to pull it off."

'And how did Cadillac react?"

'He said that attacking the train was exactly what the Federation
wanted us to do.  That was why they'd put Roz on board.  She was the
bait that would draw me in if I had truly thrown my lot in with the
Mutes.  And in the next breath he all but accused me of being prepared
to sell his people down the river in order to save her skin.

'As I said earlier, the M'Calls had already taken heavy losses in their
attack on the Lady.  Cadillac wasn't going to repeat that mistake by
leading them into a trap.  On the other hand, if I was genuine, a true
and loyal friend of the Plainfolk, he still wasn't prepared to let his
clanfolk be killed trying to rescue my kin-sister.  It was a no-win
situation."  Steve shrugged.  'From then on it went downhill, and as he
was trying to put a knife in me, we were hit by the Skyhawk."

'So what the hell are we doing talking about setting up a dummy
take-over of Red River?  'demanded Nevill.  His eyes searched out the
other members of the task force then fixed on Steve.  'If this piece of
lump-shit wasn't prepared to involve his clan in an attack on the
wagon-train then, why in the name of the Family is he going to want to
do it now?!"  Steve tried to appear patient and reasonable.  'Because
the situation has changed.  Clearwater is on the train!"  Nevill
grinned.  'Boy - I wish I could be there when you break the news.  I'd
love to see you wriggle out of that one."

'I'll manage..."

'What will you say to him?"  enquired Wallis.

'I'll tell him he was right.  My idea of trying to spring Roz from Red
River was absolutely crazy.  And the same goes for Clearwater.  There
is no way anyone can get on board that wagon-train and rescue her.  He
just has to be grateful she's alive and accept that she is now a
prisoner of the Federation."

'And what's his reaction likely to be?"  asked Wallis.

Steve smiled.  'I know this guy like the back of my hand.  If I say she
can't be rescued, he's gonna want to prove me wrong.  And he'll buy the
idea of attacking the train because it won't come from me but from
Malone.  He's the guy who has to sell it to him.  And he has to do it
cleverly, so that Cadillac thinks it's all his own work."

Wallis mulled over the idea.  'Sounds as if it might fly.

Anyone spot any holes?"

'Yeah,' said Hannah, the mex sitting between Roz and Nevill on the
other side of the table.  'I believe our friend here has got these
lumps figured but we can't set up an attack on Red River without the
approval from the man at the top.  Okay, let's say we get that -'
Nevill interrupted again.  'Can't see CINC-TRAIN agreeing to put Red
River on the line - and Fargo ain't gonna be too happy either."

'If Mother and the P-G give the go-ahead, CINC-TRAIN and Fargo won't
have any choice in the matter,' said Wallis with a sudden hint of steel
in his voice.  'Carry on, Ray.  Assume we've got the green light..."

Hannah resumed: 'Okay.  Let's say we then come up with a workable
plan.

One which has a reasonable chance of success from the Mute's point of
view, but which we can turn around when the time comes to spring the
trap.  The question is - how can we be sure that the lumps will (a)
swallow it and (b) follow it."

'That's where I come in,' said Steve.  'The moment I get wind that
Cadillac is serious about rescuing Clearwater, I'm going to oppose the
whole idea.  That will only make him more determined to go through with
it.  But to play my part properly, I will have to know exactly what the
plan is."

'Point taken,' said Wallis.  'If we manage to get this thing off the
ground Malone will be in touch."

Steve shook his head.  'Too risky.  He and I have got to stay at arm's
length.  Malone must take his cue from Cadillac and appear to mistrust
me.  Nothing heavy otherwise his boys will wonder why he hasn't put a
bullet through my throat.  He just needs to display a reluctance to let
me in on what they're planning.  It'll encourage Cadillac and Mr Snow
to believe he is totally genuine."

'So how do we reach you?"  asked Wallis.

'Through Roz."

Nit-picker Nevill came off the sidelines.  'What's wrong with the
normal channels of communication?"

'You mean a radio-knife?  Too risky,' said Steve.  'I was caught out
once before.  If we're going to nail this bunch I have to win their
absolute trust.  I'm well on the way to doing that.  Cadillac is a
separate problem.

A personality clash.  We're rivals.  Anything I can do, he wants to do
better.  I don't have this trouble with Mr Snow.  He's razor-sharp and
he's shrewd but I've managed to establish what you might call a
"working relationship".  He likes me - and that's another reason why
Cadillac has this down on me.  He's jealous."

'How is Mr Snow going to react to the news that you've lost
Clearwater."  asked Parsons.  He was the mex sitting.

between Roz and Wallis.

'Well, he's bound to look upon it as a set-back, but it's not a major
disaster.  Thanks to Roz, I will at least be able to tell him that
she's alive and in good hands."

'But will he support Cadillac's plan to go for Red River?"

'He has to.  The clan won't attack a wagon-train if he isn't there to
lead them."

Parsons insisted.  'Yes, but how do you know he will?"  'Because he's
old.  He's near the end of the line, with maybe only a couple of big
shots left in the locker.

Summoners die a little every time they call up the power.

These guys don't get a free ride.  Each time they pull down the really
heavy shit, their own lives are on the line.  I'm not kidding.  I've
seen it.  Their eyes are dead, their bodies are empty shells.  It takes
time to recharge the batteries.

'The M'Calls will make an all-out effort to rescue Clearwater because
she's Mr Snow's successor.  Without a summoner, they can't hold onto
their position as the paramount clan of the She-Kargo bloodline.

They're finished.

That's why he will lead them against Red River."

Steve smiled.  'And as honorary member of the Plainfolk, I'll be right
alongside him."

'Haven't you overlooked something?"  said Nevill, clearly underwhelmed
by Steve's assurances.  'Something you told us a while back?  About
your friend Mr Snow the Storm-Bringer?  Isn't that the name the Mutes
give to someone who holds seven of the nine so-called Rings of
Power?"

'Yes..."

'Terrific.  This is the guy, who according to you, could have blown me
out of the sky.  And you're suggesting we just let him loose inside Red
River.  You must be out of your fuckin' mind!"  'Red River won't be in
any danger."  His kin-sister's mouth was closed but Steve could her her
other voice whispering to him.  'Roz is not just a telepath.  She has
the power to completely disorientate Mr Snow's mind put it into neutral
gear, if you like - so that he can't use it to channel the power he
draws from the earth and sky."

'Oh, yeah?"  scoffed Nevill.  'Since when?"

'Ask her,' said Steve.

Wallis, anxious to take the heat out of the situation, adopted a
conciliatory tone.  'If this was true, it could be a very interesting
development.  Is there, ahh - any way you could validate the claim your
kin-brother has just made?"

Roz looked a little nervous.  'You mean.  now?"

'Well, yes.  I realize we're not under threat from a summoner, but if
you could give us some tangible demonstration of the, ahh - mental
powers you would use on such an occasion it ' '- would be very
helpful,' said Steve.

Nevill laughed.  'For crissakes, ClanI You don't really believe this
bullshit, do you?"

'Jake - just shut your mouth, okay?"  Wallis nodded to Roz.  'Is this
how you want to do it?  With us sitting around the table?"

'Yes, that's fine."  Roz placed her hands on the table, shut her eyes
and breathed deeply.  'Move your chairs as close in as you can."

'Do we have to shut our eyes too?"  asked Wallis.

'No,' said Roz.  'I want you to enjoy the view."

And with that, the room dissolved around them.  Steve felt a stiff
breeze on his face.  Looking up, he saw a clear blue sky above his
head, stretching away to an incredibly distant horizon rimmed with
clouds.  They were sitting around the table in the open air!  It was an
hallucination, of course.  But one they all shared, and the detail was
absolutely amazing.  So real!  It was fantastic!

Roz looked incredibly tranquil, in marked contrast to the task-force
who sat paralysed with terror.  Looking down, Steve saw why.  This
hallucination was not only fantastic, it was absolutely horrific.  He
and the other people seated round the table were perched on top of a
narrow pinnacle of weathered rock at least a thousand feet above the
plain below.  The flat top of the rock was just large enough to hold
the table and the tubular metal chairs.  The slightest backward
movement by anyone would cause them to topple over the edge!

Oh, shit... Steve sneaked a quick glance down at the terrifying drop
then decided this was one demonstration he could have done without.  He
had no fear of heights when flying but being perched precariously on
the edge of a sheer drop made him feel quite sick.  This isn't
happening, he told himself.  I'm sitting in a hospital ward on the top
deck of a wagon train.  But his mind told him otherwise.  The sky, the
breeze, the pinnacle of red rock was real.  And so was the giddying
force that was drawing him like a magnet towards the plain below!

Mastering the impulse to throw himself into the void, Steve slid his
hands carefully across the table.  His first idea was to secure himself
by grabbing hold of Roz's wrists but as his right hand brushed across
her left hand he received a violent electric shock which threw his arm
in the air.

Fortunately the jolt twisted him sideways and not backwards.  He
managed to get his left hand over the far edge.  There wasn't a lot of
room because everyone around the table had had the same idea.

Don't panic, Brickman.  Nothing's going to happen to you.  Your little
sister is just showing this bunch of assholes what she can do...

Steve heard a strangled cry from Nevill's end of the table.  Looking
between the heads and over the outstretched arms of his companions, he
saw the reason for Nevill's distress.  The pinnacle of rock had two
points.

Nevill's chair was poised on top of the second, smaller peak, about six
feet away from the table.  The top was just wide enough to hold the
base of the chair.  Nevill sat there, rigid with terror, clutching the
seat, with his feet hanging in the air.  Just looking at him made Steve
even worse than before.

He closed his eyes and tried to contact his kin-sister.

Okay, Roz, you've made your point.  Now get us out of this
nightmare...

'Hey, guys!  Please!  Help me!"  Nevill's gruff, macho delivery had
dissolved into a strangled bleat.

Are you kidding?  One false move and we'll all be over the fucking
edge.

Nevill's voice became a shrill squawk.  'Aaghh!  AAghh' AAGHH!"  Steve
forced himself to look in his direction.  The top of the second rock
needle had started to crumble.  Nevill's chair was tilting over
backwards.  The mex didn't dare lean forward for fear of overbalancing
in the other direction.

He was frozen to the chair, eyes bulging, his open mouth twitching
grotesquely in horrified anticipation-Steve glimpsed the rubber sole of
Nevill's boots rise into the air then shut his eyes as the chair went
over, pitching the mex into the void.  The sound of Nevill's scream
made his blood run cold-There was a heavy thump and a crash of metal.

The breeze which had been buffeting Steve's face ceased abruptly.  He
opened his eyes and saw Roz looking at him.  The table was back in the
hospital ward but those seated around her could not quite believe it.

They looked at each other, stunned, speechless, then all eyes went to
Nevill's end of the table.  His chair lay on the floor; Nevill was
sprawled on his back beside it.  Ray Hannah and Daryl Coates, the mex
on Steve's left, righted his chair and helped him to his feet.

Nevill was shaking uncontrollably and there was a spreading dark patch
around the crotch of his fatigues where he had fouled himself.  He
gripped the table to steady himself as Hannah and Coates eased him back
into the chair.  'Christo!  I had the most terrible -' He broke off as
he saw their tense faces.  'Wh-what happened?!"  'Good question..."  To
judge by Wallis' total lack of colour, he'd had a bad trip - like
everyone else.  He eyed Roz nervously, and when he spoke, his voice
wavered.

'Thank you.  Yes... that was, uhh.  most instructive.

I had no, uhh -' He cleared his throat and in doing so, forced his
voice up half an octave.  'Why don't the two of you check on how your
patient is doing, while we, uhh...?"

'Of course,' said Roz.

The task force watched in total silence as Steve followed her out.

Hannah shut the door behind them.

As they went down the stairs, there were a million questions buzzing
around in Steve's head.  It had been a shattering experience.  His legs
were like jelly but he tried to sound casual.  'That was quite a stunt
you pulled back there.  I'm impressed."

Roz, two steps below him, glanced back and smiled.

'This is just the beginning."

The smile was the smile he had always known, but the look in her eyes
belonged to a stranger.  And there was something else.  He had done all
the talking while she listened, but for most of the time he had been
nothing more than a mouth-piece.  Roz had put the words into his
head.

There are forces at work here I don't understand, thought Steve.  And
for the first time in his life he felt frightened of his kin
sister...

CHAPTER THREE

Cadillac stirred as the effect of the sleeping-pills began to wear
off.

Griff, the breaker who had been guarding the smooth-boned Mute, stood
up as Malone approached.

'Another five or ten minutes and he should be on his feet."

'Good.  Get saddled up.  I want to make the most of this moonlight."

'If it's okay with you, I'd prefer to walk and just use it to carry my
gear."

'I don't give a lump's ass for what you prefer,' snarled Malone.

'You'll get on that fuckin' horse and learn to ride like the rest of
us!"  'Wilco!"  Griff stepped back out of range of Malone's fists and
feet then ran towards the line of tethered horses they'd inherited from
a strange trio of travelling Mutes.

These three, who had come out of the east, didn't act like your normal
run-of-the-mill lump-head.  In fact, to judge by the amount of time
Malone had spent talking to them before the air strike, they were
something extra-special.

Griffs curiosity about the matter ended there.  Malone was one tough
hombre, and if, for some reason, he'd decided to cosy up to a bunch of
Mutes then that was strictly his business.  The guy knew what he was
doing and anyone who poked his nose where it wasn't wanted got a short,
sharp lesson he never forgot.  Any breaker foolish enough to forget the
first lesson, didn't survive the second.

Like most breakers, Griff didn't like Mutes but he'd learned to live
alongside them.  And provided you didn't kill 'em.  they left you
pretty much alone.  The clans preferred you to stay off their turf but
if you went on through their boundary markers and were challenged by a
posse of warriors you could usually buy 'em off by giving them a few
bits of junk to hang on themselves.  And if you handed over any
crossbow bolts you'd found - because they did sometimes miss when out
hunting - then you really made their day.

The bolts, like the crossbows that fired them, were highly-prized items
made by a bunch of ginks over in the east.  Mutes even traded their own
people to get hold of them, so a handful of free bolts was a big
bonus.

They'd start laughing and leaping around, shouting and crowing.

But in amongst all the jibber-jabbering, they used real words, strung
together - and which made sense.

That had been his biggest surprise on encountering Mutes during his
first tour of duty as a service engineer in a Kansas work camp.  And
ever since becoming a breaker - the moment when he'd been obliged to
treat Mutes as equals and not as sullen slaves- Griff had been
constantly amazed to discover how normal they were.  Okay, they had
lumpy skulls and multi-coloured hides, but they were like Trackers in
so many ways.  Griff could never figure out how they could act the way
they did and yet not be human beings.  It was a real mystery.

This trio Who'd come riding out of the east at the head of a whole
bunch of horses was a good example.  They spoke regular Basic and their
brains were as sharp as a knife.  And if you stripped away the dark to
light brown patches on their skins with your mind's eye and stood 'em
alongside three good ole boys you'd be hard put to tell the
difference.

And when Griff thought about the time he'd spent watching the training
videos about bug-ugly Mutes - poisonous savage vicious animals that had
to be ruthlessly exterminated - he couldn't help wondering why the
First Family hadn't told Trackers the whole story: like the fact that a
bunch of breakers could live alongside Mutes and not end up with their
heads on a stick.

Yeah .  . . it was a puzzle right enough - like trying to figure out
why anyone would want to sit on top of one of these four-legged freaks
they'd been landed with.  Especially when they had teeth that could
bite right through your hand and back legs that kicked like a fuggin'
jack-hammer.  Okay, this bunch had come complete with a seat on their
backs and leather straps for steering 'em round corners but it was a
helluva way to travel.

Griff could see that horses would be useful for carrying gear but even
that had its drawbacks.  Leading a string of pack-horses just made you
a bigger target and there was always the risk that the beasts might
decide to bolt with your precious possessions.  Better to travel light
than start relying on a transportation system that a passing Skyhawk
could blow away in nought seconds flat.

On the other hand, if he put his own feelings to one side, Griff could
see what Malone and his new Mute friends had been getting at.  If you
managed to stay in the saddle and figure out how to get the thing in
gear, you could cover a lot of ground pretty fast.  Fast enough to
outrun a Mute.  Some of the guys had already cracked the problem and
when he watched them show off in front of the others, Griff could see
it gave the riders a real buzz.

There was no two ways about it.  It was impressive- but it wasn't
natural.  Or practical.  You just had to take the problem of
maintenance.  Horses weren't like wheelies.

If one of those broke down you just ran the onboard diagnostic
programme and ordered whatever new part was required.  With horses, you
were totally screwed.  To begin with, nobody knew what went on inside
and you couldn't bolt on new legs like you could wheels.  If one of
those broke that was it.  You couldn't even cannibalize the unit to
create a stock of spare parts.  You had to ditch the whole bundle.

Griff picked up the wood and leather saddle, admired once again the
handiwork of the unknown craftsman then positioned it on the back of
his horse.  'Steady, friend,' he muttered.  'I know you hate this as
much as I do but the boss-man wants us both back on the trail..."

He drew the girth tight around the horse's belly then pulled another
notch through the buckle.  He'd already done one slow roll off his
mount to the raucous cheers of his companions and he didn't intend to
make that particular mistake again.

Malone experienced similar misgivings as he gazed down at Cadillac.

The Mute was one problem he could have done without.  Although he
parlayed with Mutes and observed the ground rules of peaceful
coexistence, he did not share Griff's qualified forbearance.  Malone
didn't like Mutes.  Period.  But then Malone wasn't a renegade, a
breaker on the run from the Federation.  Some of the men he led were
genuine deserters - brave enough to seek an independent existence on
the overground but also a treacherous heap of garbage.  Malone didn't
mind.

That was what he been sent out to run: a garbage disposal unit.  Malone
and the core of his renegade band were mexicans, agents of the
undercover organization controlled by Commander-General Karlstrom.

Trapped between the worlds of Tracker and Mute, renegades were
basically scavengers; wanderers who roamed the overground with no
particular destination and no home to return to.  Death was the only
welcome they could expect from the Federation.  Fortunately there were
large areas which had not yet attracted the attentions of the
Trail-Blazers and where Mutes were thin on the ground.  Like the Rocky
Mountains for instance.

But there was a good reason why the lumpheads gave the Rockies a wide
berth.  For six months of the year it was so cold, and the snow was so
deep, no one could survive there.  Unless of course you were
well~organized and properly equipped.  Karlstrom had made sure his
groups had the expertise and equipment they needed but'each item was
carefully selected and given a worn, weathered look so as not to strike
a false note.

Like any species fighting for survival, renegades were subject to the
process of natural selection.  The strong prospered, the weak
perished.

A large group offered safety, continuity and companionship.  Malone's
organization also provided the other vital element - strong
leadership.

Within months of its formation, it had become a magnet, attracting
smaller groups and individuals who, up to that moment, had opted for a
hermit-like existence.

And within the Federation, Malone's name was deftly inserted into the
information network run by known subversives.

To many in this twilight world, Malone had already assumed the status
of a folk-hero.  Someone who had beaten the system.  It hadn't taken
long for his name and approximate whereabouts to surface in the
way-stations and work-camps.  His wasn't the only name that was passed
along in whispered conversations.  There were several others obligingly
provided by AMEXICO for the benefit of potential defectors - all of
them fostering the notion of a growing rebel movement and a relatively
safe haven.

Only very few who managed to join Malone realized they had fallen back
into the hands of the Federation and they were quickly eliminated.  It
was a sweet operation - one of several similar overground 'stings'
which enabled the First Family to keep its finger on the pulse of the
protest movement.  And it also ensured a steady supply of candidates
for the televised show trials.  If the wagon-trains failed to flush out
a sufficient number of breakers, Malone and his counterparts made up
the balance by sending unsuspecting candidates into a
carefully-coordinated ambush.

Had the matter been left to him, the Mute at his feet would now be on
his way to the Federation.  This Cadillac Deville character was on the
wanted list.  He'd been nailed.  He should have been shipped out
pronto.  End of the story.  Neat, clean and simple to arrange.

But that wasn't how HANG-FIRE wanted to play it.

HANG-FIRE was the operational code-name for Steve Brickman, a wet-back
who had graduated from Rio Lobo the previous year after serving briefly
as a wing-man aboard The Lady from Louisiana.

Malone knew these background details because he had been selected to
give Brickman his final test.  A potentially fatal ordeal designed to
measure a candidate's courage and endurance.  Brickman had been
'posted' - tied in a kneeling position against a stake, face to face
with the corpse of a Tracker he'd killed in the line of duty.

He'd come through it, earning himself full marks in the process.  There
was no doubt about it.  Brickman had the makings of a real operator and
his latest trick had been to get in and out of Ne-Issan, bringing two
important Mute targets with him: Clearwater, a female Mute and
Cadillac, the lump now at Malone's feet who was taking forever to shake
off the double dose of Cloud Nines.

Clearwater had been seriously wounded in a surprise air attack by a
stray Skyhawk.  At Brickman's request, Malone and his renegades had
struck camp and ridden off, leaving them behind.  If she hadn't died in
his arms, Clearwater was now on board Red River.  Cadillac had been
superficially wounded and knocked unconscious by the same hail of
fire.

To Malone, it seemed like an ideal opportunity to ship them both out
together.  Two out of three wasn't a bad result, but Brickman wanted a
full house.  By leaving Cadillac free, he hoped to entrap his third
target - Mr Snow, the power behind the Clan m'call.  Which was the
reason why he, Malone, had been lumbered with the task of escorting
this lumphead as far as navref Cheyenne, Wyoming.  A journey which
placed his band of renegades in considerable danger.

This was the wrong time of year to be moving around.

April was the month when the Mutes hunted 'redskins'.  - breakers; the
annual round-up of strays which were handed over to the Iron Masters in
exchange for goods and shipped east.  Malone hadn't planned to leave
the camp that Brickman and his friends had ridden into until mid-May.

The site was in a commanding position, with good cover and running
water: ideal for a long stay.  It had been chosen because AMEXICO knew
which way Brickman was heading and he was expected to pass close by.

At which point Malone - quite by chance- was to pop up and renew their
acquaintance.  Everything had gone according to plan and then - thanks
to some asshole in a Skyhawk and two scumbags who hadn't seen it coming
- everything had gone wrong, forcing him to head west when every
sensible breaker was lying low.

The only solution was to travel at night.  Mutes, for some reason
rooted deep in their collective past, were only active between sunrise
and sunset.  After that, the hunting posses and turf patrols went home
or bedded down for the night.  It wasn't the ideal time for travelling
cross-country but after umpteen years in the field, Malone had become
adept at reading the terrain and moving men across it under the most
adverse conditions.

Even so, he was sorely tempted to call up a sky-hook to take Cadillac
off his hands.  But this was not his operation.  The orders from Mother
had been clear and unequivocal.  He had been detailed to intercept
Brickman at a given point during his journey, assess his reliability
and - with Mother's approval - to render assistance if and when
required.  Brickman had said and done all the right things but he'd set
Malone's internal alarm system ringing.  There was something about
him.

Maybe it was just Malone's instinctive antipathy towards clean-cut
blue-eyed golden boys, but Brickman was too smart for his own good and
just too good to be true.

In the previous year, six of Malone's people, including a class-mate of
Brickman's, had been sent north to provide him with the back-up he'd
requested to help kidnap the same three Mutes.  In the last radio
contact made by amex called Donna Lundkwist, she reported the squad had
been sighted by a posse of M'Call Mutes - recognizable by the colour of
the feathers in their headgear.  The Mutes had put up a smoking arrow a
sign they wished to parley.  End of message.  No one had ever heard
from those six mexicans again.  Brickman had been running with that
clan.  Painted up, grassed-out and leathered.  His degree of
involvement in the backup squad's disappearance was a question that had
plagued Malone ever since.

He glanced up at the clear moonlit sky and saw a bank of dark cloud
building up on the northern horizon.

Malone was astute and resourceful but patience was not one of his
virtues - especially when it came to unwanted guests, and even more so
when that guest was a Mute.

Following the shooting of Clearwater, Cadillac had not regained
consciousness.  To avoid any hassles, he had been kept in a drugged
stupor for the past two days.

Helped by clear night skies, they had covered some seventy odd miles.

One way or another, Clearwater was now beyond reach.  It was high time
for this lump to stand on his own feet instead of having to be carried
around everywhere.  When Mother had asked him to help Brickman, he
hadn't figured it would mean having to namby-pamby an uppity Mute.

That was the bit that really pissed him off - not the move.

He dug his boot into Cadillac's side.  'C'mon!  Wake up you
sonofabitch!  We haven't got all night!"  Cadillac stirred drowsily.

'uh-humm, yeah .  . . sure ..."  His eyes fluttered open then closed
again as his mouth opened in a huge yawn.

Malone unhitched his water bottle and emptied it over Cadillac's
face.

Some of it went down his throat causing him to gag.  He rolled about
choking and coughing then eventually sat up clutching his head.

'On your feet!  C'mon!  We're moving out!"  Malone slid a hand under
his left armpit and hauled him upright.

Cadillac steadied himself and rubbed his face.  His body seemed gripped
by a strange lethargy.  'Mo-Town!  I feel -' His eyes widened as he
focused on Malone, then he quickly took in his strange surroundings.

'Where's Clearwater?  And Brickman?"  A jab of pain from his various
flesh wounds caused him to frown.  He looked down at his left side and
saw two bloodstained rips in his walking skins on the outside curve of
the thigh.  There was also a deep graze in his belly.  An expression of
alarm crossed his face.  'Who shot me?!"  'You don't remember?  Must
have been after you hit the ground."  Malone told him about the Skyhawk
that had appeared out of the blue, making a single strafing run across
the campsite before turning for home.

Some premonition of what he was going to say next made Cadillac howl
with grief.  He wrapped his arms around his chest and rocked from side
to side.  'Oh, Sweet Sky-Mother!  Clearwater!  Is she dead?"

'Not when we left.  But she was hurt pretty bad."

'Oyy-yehh!  This is all my fault!  What about Brickman?"

'He's fine.  Came out of it without a scratch."

The news caused Cadillac to grind his teeth.  'He would!

Hah!  How typical!  So what did you do?"

Malone did his best to conceal his irritation at being questioned in
this peremptory manner.  Who the fuck did this guy think he was?

'Do?

The best we could.  State she was in she couldn't be moved.  So we
dressed the wounds with what we had then got the hell out.  No point in
staying there once the camp had been spotted.  We've had 'hawks over
our heads for the past couple of days."

Cadillac's mounting anger boiled over.  'Are you telling me she was
shot two days ago?!"  Malone checked his watch.  'Exactly fifty-four
hours and twelve minutes ago."

'Why didn't someone tell me before now?!"  Malone resisted the impulse
to smash Cadillac in the mouth.  'Because there was nothing you could
do, friend."

'Hahh!"  Cadillac became aware of the metallic aftertaste on his
tongue.  'Was it Brickman's idea to pump me full of drugs?!"  'Yeah.

He said you'd be hysterical, and he was right.

Pull yourself together for crissakes!"  'I am together!  He had no
right to take matters into his own hands like this!  We've got to go
back for her!"  'Are you crazy?  The only thing that could've saved her
was major surgery.  Federation-type medicine - not the mumbo-jumbo you
monkeys mess around with.  She'll be dead and buried by now-' 'No!

Don't say that!"  Malone ignored the interruption.  'My job is to help
you get back to your own people.  Isn't that what Brickman promised to
do?"

'Yes, but-' 'There are no "buts".  That's what we're gonna do,
friend.

It was two of my guys who let that plane take us by surprise.  So quit
blaming yourself for what happened.

I can understand Brickman being' upset at losing a neat piece of ass
but what the hell have you got to cry about?"

Cadillac brushed away the tears of rage and grief with shaking hands
that longed to fasten themselves around Malone's throat.  'She didn't
belong to him!"  'Could have fooled me.  Is that what the fight was
about?"

'No.  We were fighting because Brickman is a treacherous, lying toad!'
'That seems a mite ungrateful.  Didn't he help you and Clearwater get
out of Ne-Issan?"

'He didn't do that to help us!  He got us out in order to hand us over
to his masters in the Federation!  He's not a renegade!  He's been
working with a network of undercover agents for over a year!"  'I
see..."  Malone ruminated on this for a moment.

'Did he tell you anything about this network - like it's name for
instance?  Or who was running it?"

Cadillac realized he had said too much and was already regretting his
temporary loss of control.  His antagonism towards Steve had not
diminished but Malone was a virtual stranger.  A cipher whose mind, for
the moment at least, was inaccessible.  'No.  But we couldn't have
escaped without outside help - which he organized.  If he turns up
again, ask him about it.  All I can say is, no one's safe when he's
around."

'I'll bear that in mind,' said Malone.  'Meanwhile forget we've had
this conversation.  If Brickman does rejoin us, I may decide to let
things ride for a while.  If you're right, and he/s an undercover Fed
then it may be to our advantage to let him think we trust him
completely.  Know what I mean?"

'I think so..."

'Good.  Let's hit the trail."  Malone gave Cadillac a friendly slap on
the back then ushered him over to the waiting horses.  He would have
preferred to have broken the back of this snivelling piece of lumpshit
but - like Brickman - he had a job to do and a role to play.

That of big-hearted Matt Malone, friend and protector of abandoned
Mutes.

Some six hundred miles to the south of Malone's present position close
to the Platte River, Nebraska, The Lady from Louisiana wagon-train had
emerged from the repair bays and was back in what was known as 'the
roads', being readied for action in the vast underground depot at
Nixon/Fort Worth.

In June 2989, The Lady had narrowly avoided a major disaster in its
first encounter with a Plainfolk clan aided by a summoner.  Caught in a
flash-flood, The Lady had managed to extricate herself virtually
undamaged but in doing so, she had lost nine out of the ten wing-men
posted aboard and their aircraft, plus over eighty linemen.

Close on double that number had been wounded.

In November 2990, when The Lady had been sent out into the snows on a
special mission, it had been even worse.  The explosive charges planted
by Cadillac and Clearwater had totally destroyed the blood-wagon-and
flight car, and the tidal wave of fire that erupted from the stock of
napalm canisters and liquid methane tanks stored beneath the hanger
deck had rolled through three more cars, incinerating the crewmen in
its path.

Abandoning the five gutted cars, The Lady reformed and set course, as
directed, for Monroe/Wichita, the still-uncompleted divisional base in
Kansas, Arriving at the interface, the wounded crewmen had been
offloaded and rushed to hospital.  Commander Hartmann and his team of
execs, including Trail Boss McDonnell had been placed under close
arrest and shuttled to Grand Central to await trial.  The surviving
members of the crew who had escaped the same 'dereliction of duty'
charge were placed under the temporary command of an executive team
drawn from the training staff at Fort Worth.  It was they who had
brought The Lady - defeated and disgraced - southwards through Oklahoma
into the relative safety of the HOme State and back down the long
incline into the depot.

The winter months - whose high point was the celebration of the New
Year - were, by tradition, spent on 'rest and refit' (R & R).  A period
when TrailBlazer crews enjoyed a welcome spell of leave after eight to
nine months on the overground, and when the depot engineers began their
task of overhauling the trains, readying them for their next assault on
the blue-sky world.

The Lady was in need of more than a refit.  The missing wagons had to
be replaced, fire-damage to several others had to be made good, the
crew had to be brought up to strength and their shattered morale
restored.

Bringing The Lady back to operational status was a major undertaking
but it proved easier than raising the crew's spirits.  Despite the
damage and the casualties The Lady had sustained, Hartmann and his
executive team with perhaps one exception - were held in high regard by
the Trail-Blazers who served under them.  The exec who failed to
inspire the troops to the same degree was Captain Baxter, the Flight
Operations Officer.  He had died in the blast that ripped through the
packed hangar deck of the flight car, killing Gus White and the other
wing-men, the mechanics, deck handlers and a score of TrailBlazers.

The Lady's Trail Boss, Buck McDonnell, whose alertness and quick
reactions had saved the forward command car and its crew had been
released after two months detention.  In a brief appearance before a
Board of Assessors, he was informed that all charges had been dropped
and was ordered to report for active duty at Nixon/Fort Worth.  Exiting
from the court room, he was met by a Staff-Commander from CINC-TRAIN
who welcomed him back into the ranks of the Trail-Blazer Division.

His first task would be to knock the new crew of The Lady into shape
and he was to begin immediately.  Due to operational requirements,
there would, explained the Commander, be no chance of the four weeks
base leave to which he' was entitled.

In his usual blunt but respectful fashion, the big Trail Boss told him
it didn't matter.  After eight weeks on the shit and bucket detail he
was just happy to be soldiering again.

The decision to release McDonnell had paid off.  From Day One there had
been a noticeable rise in the spirits of the veteran crewmen and the
transferees and wet-feet the uninitiated replacements - soon discovered
that Big D's reputation as a fire-breathing disciplinarian was, if
anything, an understatement.  A second stand-in team of execs from the
depot's permanent staff helped the crew go through their on-board
drills but as the weeks passed, even McDonnell became concerned about
the deafening silence surrounding the appointment of a new
wagon-master.

Finally, one day in early April, when the crew had assembled for the
usual morning parade alongside the wagon-train, McDonnell strode along
the ranks behind the duty officer with a noticeable gleam in his eye.

When the DO completed his formal inspection of the battalion and passed
control over to McDonnell, it was clear to old hands like Bad News
Logan that something was up.

Sornethin' good for a change.  Of' Big D was practically burstin ' .

.

.

McDonnell braced himself.  'Wagon-trainn-nn EASY!"  he boomed.

The battalion stood at ease with a thunderous stamp of boots, the palms
of their hands crossed in the small of their backs.

'Okay, hear this!"  he said, in the same foghorn voice."

'I have been reliably informed that The Lady has a new commander and he
will shortly be arriving with his team of execs!"  The announcement
provoked a subdued murmur.

'And as soon as they're settled in - and we've shown them the ropes ' A
ripple of laughter.

'- they'll be taking The Lady out for a shakedown supply run to
Abilene, San Angelo and Brady!"  This news raised an audible groan.

Abilene, San Angelo and Brady were way-stations to the southwest of
Fort Worth in the Home State of Texas.  Territories under the total
control of the Federation where there was no chance of a fire-fight.

'And then we're going' north - to hunt Mute!"  The battalion responded
with an exultant shout, punching the air with their fists.  'HO!'
McDonnell caught sight of an approaching wheelie.  It was a four-car
enclosed model: the type used by hire-wires.

He called The Lady's crew to attention.  'Wagon-trainn-nn READY!"

Close on a thousand pairs of boots came together with a synchronised
thud.

The Trail Boss made a smart about-turn, his brass-topped drill stick
braced stiffly under his left arm, and parallel to the ground.

The wheelie whined to a halt in front of him.  The doors on both sides
opened and disgorged the team of executive officers who were to take
charge of The Lady from Louisiana.  There was an audible gasp from the
veteran crewmen as they glimpsed the bushy white mustache of the
officer with the yellow commander's rank bars on his lower sleeve.

It was Hartmann, their old commander.  Buffalo Bill - back in uniform
and back in charge, and eight of the twelve smiling faces around him
belonged to the executive officers who had served with him up to the
moment the Provos had come aboard to arrest them all.

Buck McDonnell's right hand snapped into line with the brim of his
stetson, fingers and thumb aligned in a perfect drill manual salute.

'Eight Battalion, Trail Blazer Division, mustered aboard The Lady from
Louisiana, ready for your inspection, SAH!"  'Thank you, Mr
McDonnell."

Hartmann returned the salute, as did the twelve execs lined up in two
staggered rows behind him.  The formal greetings over, Hartmann
exchanged a warm handshake with his Trail Boss.

'Welcome back, sir."

'It feels good, Buck.  When did you hear we were on our way?"

'Last night, sir.  Had quite a job keeping it from the boys."

'Well, they look happy enough,' observed Hartmann.

'I thought they might be a bit leery about serving under a two-time
loser."

'Sir!  Are you kidding?!"  McDonnell turned towards the men lined up in
three ranks in front of The Lady.

'Okay, you clapped-out, time-serving bunch of slack-assed mothers!

Let's hear it for the commander!"  The six hundred veterans that formed
the core of The Lady's crew cut loose with the time-honoured chant:
'Buffalo Bill!  Buffalo Bill!  Just say the word and we'll kill, kill,
kill!  Give us a rifle, helmet and pack, and we'll follow you to hell
and back!"  'Are we ready and able?!  Are we fit to show?!"  demanded
McD.

Everyone, including the execs behind Hartmann, joined in the
traditional response: 'You bet your ass!

Let's GO - GO - GO!"  Hartmann, noticeably moved by the warmth of his
reception, signalled McDonnell to stand the men down.

'Wagon-train-n-n-n EASY!"  The nine hundred men and women making up the
crew of The Lady were mustered in individual groups in front of the
cars to which they were assigned: medical staff in front of the blood
wagon, 'fire-men' in front of the power cars, and so on.  As Hartmann
led his team of execs along the ranks, each squad or section leader
called his individual group to attention.  The wagon-master paused to
exchange a few words when he encountered a familiar face and the
veteran execs did the same.  Those drafted in as replacements would
each get the customary one-on-one interview with Hartmann, and the
executive officer in charge of their particular specialization, once
they were on board.

When the inspection and greetings were over, Hartmann sought out his
deputy, It.  Commander Jim Cooper.

'Mount up, will you Coop?  I have to place a call to a friend of
mine..."

The first two video-phone booths had plasfilm notice strips stuck
diagonally across their screens bearing the words 'LINE
FAULTVID-COMMSERV NOTIFIED'.

It meant a service engineer was on his way.

Sometime between now and the millenium...

The third booth he found was working.  Hartmann inserted his
newly-returned ID-card, keyed his way through the on-screen call menus,
entered the state-code for Colorado (09) followed by the three-digit
code for the Pueblo way-station (012) and the x-listed number he had
memorized.

The Amtrak logo on the screen was replaced by the head and shoulders of
Major Jerri Hiller, one of MaryAnn's junior battalion comanders.

Hartmann noticed her hair was considerably longer than when he had last
seen her.  He also couldn't decide whether she was surprised to see him
or annoyed - or both.

'Is Colonel Anderssen available?"

'One moment, Commander..."  Hiller moved out of view of the tv camera
mounted immediately above the screen carrying his image.

There were muted voices off then Colonel Marie Anderssen moved quickly
into the empty seat.  'Bill!"  She too was surprised, but the pleasure
at his call was evident in the broad smile that came beaming across the
ether.  'Christo!  You're wearing active duty OD's!"  OD was the
abbreviation for the olive-drab, military-style fatigues he was
wearing.

'Yeah.  They let me out of detention yesterday morning.  Plus Coop and
the rest of the guys.  All charges have been dropped.  We've been
re-instated and we'll be rolling The Lady up the ramp at 0700 hours
tomorrow."

Mary-Ann interlaced her fingers and squeezed her hands together.  'Oh,
Bill, that's wonderful!  It's the best news I've had all year!"  'You
and me both."

'I tried to get permission to see you..."

'Yeah, I know.  Your message got through to me.

Thanks.  It helped a lot."

'Is there any chance of you heading this way?"

'Can't say.  We're warming up with a home state supply run.  After that
I'm not sure what they've got lined up for us.  The hire-wire from
CINC-TRAIN in charge of the welcome-back party hinted we might be given
another special assignment."

Mary-Ann looked concerned.  'Oh, gosh, I hope it's not -I' Hartmann cut
in.  'Honey - we just have to take what comes."  He smiled.  'You're
looking great.  This picture quality's very good."

'It is now it's tuned in properly.  VID-COMM had no end of problems
trying to set up the link with Santa Fe."

'How long have you been online?"

'Not long."  Mary-Ann smiled back at him.  'You're the first personal
call I've had.  Up to now they've either been test transmissions from
VID-COMM or from HQ-PDIV.

How did you get my number?"

'Through a friend.  Amazing as it seems, I still have a few."

I'm one of them."

'Oh, you're more than just a friend.  You're something special Let's
hope the next time we meet there won't be a piece of glass and an ocean
of red grass between us."

Mary-Ann smiled wistfully as she recalled the comfortable intimacy of
their past encounters.  'Amen to that."

Then, on a more cheerful note she added: 'I'm so pleased for you,
Bill.

Every night I've prayed that somebody somewhere along the line would
have the good sense to realize you were innocent."

'Well, as you can see, your prayers have been answered..."

'And not only that, you're back in charge of The Lady.

How does it feel?"

'Like coming back from the dead,' said Hartmann.

Wallis and Malone rose from their chairs as Commander-General Karlstrom
entered his wood-panelled office.  As the metal door of his personal
elevator closed behind him, a matching section of wood descended over
it, sealing it from view.  Karlstrom skirted his desk and advanced,
right hand extended.

As senior operatives, holding the military rank of Commander, Wallis
and Malone had earned the right to warm handshakes and use of their
given names in meetings with the Operational Director.  This relaxed
atmosphere (enjoyed by everyone with more than four years successful
service) did not permit them to address Karlstrom as 'Ben', but they
weren't required to include the word 'sir' every time they spoke, and
there was none of the jumping to attention or parade ground saluting
required from wet-backs fresh out of Rio Lobo.

'Don..."

'Morning, sir..."

Karlstrom turned to greet Malone.  'Matt!  Glad you could make it.

Hope it wasn't a problem calling you in at such short notice."

'No, sir.  I managed to cover it.  Took off with four of the boys to
check our southern flank."  He smiled.  'With so much air activity in
our sector, I thought we might have a wagon-train on our trail.

Provided I'm back by dawn tomorrow, there shouldn't be any problem."

'We've got enough as it is,' said Karlstrom.  'This particular
operation has become so complex I felt we should talk it over face to
face."  Karlstrom waved them into their seats and settled into the
high-backed chair behind his desk.  'Don, uhh, before you give us your
sit-rep, where is Mr Brickman at this moment in time?"

'Still on the wagon-train, awaiting the outcome of this meeting.  If he
gets a green on the.next phase of the operation he intends to head west
with his three horses towards the junction of the North and South
Platte Rivers in the hope of catching up with Cadillac and, uhh... ?"

Wallis' eyes questioned Malone.

'Don't worry, I'll be there.  I don't know how good he is at following
trails but I reckon it'll take him at least four days.  Karlstrom
nodded, then turned back to Wallis.

'Run us through what happened on the train."

'From when Brickman first came on the air?"

'Yes.  I want Matt to have the whole picture so that he knows exactly
what we're up against."

Malone looked puzzled.  'Am I on the wrong track, sir?

I was under the impression Brickman and his kin sister were working for
us."

'It's not quite that simple, Matt.  In theory, yes, they are.

Unfortunately, in practice, some doubt has arisen over the question of
who is manipulating who.  Let Don say his piece and you'll understand
what I'm getting at."

Wallis gave a crisp, coherent account of the rescue operation that had
been triggered by the telepathic contact between Brickman and Roz: an
operation which Karlstrom had approved over his direct radio link with
the task-force.  He then gave a brief update of the surgical treatment
Clearwater had received and her present state of health, described
Steve's arrival on board, played back the tapes of his conversations
with Roz, and concluded by describing her terrifying demonstration of
mind-control.

'Don't ask me how she does it.  All I can tell you is it works, and she
can turn it on just like that."  He snapped his fingers.  'When you
imagine what she could have dreamed up, you may think that sitting on
top of a rock tower is not all that bad -' Malone held up his hands.

'I didn't say anything, Don."

'No, but I can see your face.  I'm telling you it was absolutely
horrendous.  And when Jake fell off that fucking ..."  He tried to
shake the memory away.  'I hope and pray I never have to go through
anything like that again."

'How is he now,' asked Karlstrom.

'Jake?  Having trouble sleeping."

Malone grunted.  'He'll get over it.  Sounds like he got what he had
coming."

'He always did tend to run off at the mouth,' agreed Wallis.  'I don't
think he'll do it again while she's around."

He turned to Karlstrom.  'The question is - if she was able to take
control of our minds then, is she in control of them now?"

Malone laughed.  'How the hell can she be?  You're not on the
wagon-train."

'Why should that make any difference?  The telepathic link between Roz
and her kin-brother works just as well even when they're thousands of
miles apart?"  He appealed to Karlstrom.  'Right, sir?"

'It would appear so, yes.  But with all due respect, Don, I think
you're over-reacting.  It was obviously a bad experience but you asked
for a demonstration and you got it.  Technically she may have taken
control of your mind but she did not actually make you do anything rash
or foolish.  As I understand it, apart from Nevill, none of you budged
from that table."

'That's true, but ' 'What she did was induce what psychologists call a
positive hallucination.  Which you all shared.  That's the interesting
bit.  Mass hypnosis is not unknown.  You appear to have experienced a
sophisticated "instant" version, and a very effective one too.  If she
can warp someone's perception to that degree and at that speed, I have
a feeling she really could neutralize Mr Snow.

'But that's not really mind control - at least not the kind that
worries me.  Roz has no reason to turn against the Federation.  Her
rival for Steve's affections is now wired to a life-support system and
at her mercy.

'Brickman may still be mixed up over the two of them but he's not going
to jump ship if we've got Clearwater and Roz in Grand Central.  It
would be absolutely pointless.

He is a natural undercover agent.  He's almost impossible to read but
there is one thing I do know about him.  He's hungry for power.  And
this is where the power is.  No..."  Karlstrom paused reflectively.

'He and Roz will come through for us.  I'm sure of it."

'So we don't need to worry about her, uhh' Karlstrom smiled,
apparently satisfied with his reasoning.

'Don - if she Was planning to betray us, would she have shown us what
she could do?"

Wallis conceded reluctantly.  'No, I suppose not."

Malone caught Karlstrom's eye.  'Excuse me asking, but this guy
Brickman - is he all right in the head?  I mean, does he still know
where the edges are?  It's no secret he's been bouncing beaver and
you've just hinted he's been jacking up his kin-sister."

'They're not related, Matt.  But that's classified, okay?"

'I understand, sir."

'Okay, let's get down to the real business - setting up this attack by
the M'Call Mutes on Red River.  I've got approval for the idea from the
Oval Office.  It could be a good way of finishing off the M'Calls but
what we have to do is figure out how to get our two remaining targets
on board a wagon-train and safely under lock and key without-losing the
whole shebang."

'Sir, I'm not saying it can't be done, but do we have to bring these
other two in?  asked Malone.  'You've got Clearwater.  Why don't we
just close down the file by putting three triples through their
heads?"

Wallis nodded in agreement.

Karlstrom responded with a thin-lipped smile.  'That might take care of
Cadillac but from what I've heard about Mr Snow, you could find the
bullets coming back at you."

'Sir - with respect - nobody's that fireproof."

'Don't count on it.  I know it's tempting, Matt, but there are other
factors to be taken into consideration.

High-level strategic objectives that I'm not at liberty to disclose at
this moment but which I'll bring you in on as soon as I'm given
clearance to do so.  Brickman's idea seems unnecessarily complex but it
could give us the set-piece engagement we're looking for."

'Ahh .  . . I didn't know that.

'And there's something else,' continued Karlstrom.

'I'm not prepared to jeopardize the relationship you've built up with
the Mutes in your sector.  From past experience, we know that some
mutes are able to communicate over long distances.  As wordsmiths, Mr.
Snow and Cadillac may have that capability.

'Yeah.  Don't ask me how.  It just does."

'Exactly.  As we speak, the M'Calls may be organizing a Welcome Home
party.  Could make things very awkward if we suddenly lost him
overboard.  If you followed that up by the on-site removal of their
wordsmith - hell!  That would really shake the shit loose."

Malone grimaced ruefully.  'You're right, sir.  I hadn't figured it
that way.  Guess I was just tryin' to cut a few corners.  ' 'Nothing
wrong with that.  Just for the record, I sent Brickman out with a
dead-or-alive option on these two.

But since then I've acquired a better overview.  Believe me.  Icing
Cadillac and Mr Snow at this point in the game would cause more
problems than it would solve.

Especially for you."

When Wallis and Malone had left for the airfield, Karlstrom remained in
the office he used for meetings with his operatives.  Slumped in his
upholstered swivel chair, his left elbow resting on the padded arm, he
reflected on what he had heard, pulling slowly at his nose, lips and
chin with thumb and forefinger as he did so.

He had maintained an up-beat mood throughout their discussions but that
had been a front.  Don Wallis' account of Roz Brickman's hallucinatory
powers filled him with alarm.  Despite the soothing assurances he'd
laid on Wallis, this was mind control - of a pretty spectacular kind.

The kind that could plunge them all into deep shit.

Karlstrom didn't give a toss whether Roz had taken temporary control of
Wallis and his team; the only mind he was concerned about was his
own.

Was she only able to distort reality and thus induce total
disorientation or was she capable of something far more sinister?  And
anyway, how the hell did you define reality in the first place?  Could
she have manipulated him into putting her aboard that train?  It had
been her suggestion, yes, but had she forced him to go along with the
idea?

No - that was impossible.  The President-General had had the final
say.

In all matters concerning Steve and Roz Brickman, Karlstrom had been
careful to cover his ass.

Unfortunately that was not sufficient to remove him from the line of
fire.  If OPERATION SQUARE-DANCE went down the tube, he would be the
one taking the flak, not G.W.J. the 31st.  Yes, sir...

But was she planning to go over the side, or was that just something
that Brickman had pulled out of the air to lay on the lump-heads?  It
had to be a bluff.  A windup.

What the hell would she do out there?  No.  With Clearwater out of the
way Roz had what she wanted.

Steve Brickman.  Karlstrom was convinced he was back on the rails.  The
psychologists who selected, shaped and supervised the people on the
Special Treatment List knew what made that young man tick.  He wanted
power, and he wanted to get even.  That was why the results of his
final exams at the Flight Academy had been fixed, giving him fourth
place instead of first and the honours he merited.  Yes .  . . that had
really lit a fire under him.  And the Federation was the only place his
needs could be satisfied.

These thoughts provided Karlstrom with scant comfort.

Roz and Brickman were both telepaths, sensitives of a remarkable
kind.

Did Brickman possess the same latent powers to bend reality out of
shape?  Right from the very beginning, Karlstrom had been reluctant to
meddle with the grey area the Life Institute called 'psionics'.  But
faced with the threat from such people as Mr Snow, the Federation could
not afford to ignore what little homegrown talent it possessed.

Karlstrom knew of Steve and Roz; only the P-G and COLUMBUS knew who the
rest were.

If there were any others Karlstrom hoped not.  The PG had likened Steve
and Roz to a weapon-system.  But what was the point of a weapon-system
whose workings no one fully understood and whose destructive potential
was incalculable?

No one in their right mind would launch such a weapon.

But the appropriate target data had been fed into Steve and Roz
Brickman and the button had been pressed.

They had been fired towards enemy lines.  Were they, as Karlstrom
sometimes feared in the small hours of the morning, beyond recall?  Was
this weapon they had unleashed about to veer off course - turn back on
its makers?  That was what Karlstrom feared the most.  And he wondered
if the handful of quacks who had elbowed themselves into an
unassailable position as the sole experts in the so-called 'science' of
psionics had had the foresight to fit their charges with a
self-destruct mechanism.

Probably not.  How could they when none of them could explain in words
of less than three syllables (that any normal person could understand)
how and why someone like Roz Brickman could fall to the ground with a
hole punched through her upper arm by a phantom crossbow bolt?  A real
hole, with real blood, that healed and disappeared without leaving any
scar tissue within eight hours!

They had no answers because they didn't know.  There was no science,
only jargon.  Psycho-babble.  The Department of Psionics at the Life
Institute was an empty shell providing nothing but a few quick
promotions, some cheap prestige.  A scam.  He had never wanted to get
involved.  He had been pressed into using Steve and Roz, and as a
result he was marooned in the middle of a fucking minefield - with the
President-General watching from the other side of the warning tapes.

Faced with the possibility that the decision to deploy Roz alongside
her kin-brother might backfire with sufficient force to remove him from
office, Karlstrom decided to take some avoiding action of his own.  He
would agree to Steve's request to leave Red River in Nebraska.

Clearwater, in any case, could not be moved.  There was no danger of
losing her: any rescue attempt mounted by force of arms would be
fatal.

And despite the risk that she might- just might - defect, he would
leave Roz there too.

To bring her back into the Federation after this demonstration of new,
uncharted powers would be an act of criminal folly.  If there was going
to be any heat, Wallis and the task force could take it.  Karlstrom was
aware that his decision placed the entire crew of Red River in jeopardy
but there was, for the moment, no acceptable alternative.  He had no
desire to find himself sitting on top of a dizzying pinnacle of rock,
or whatever other horror she might produce from the depths of her
mind.

And until some way could be found to deal with the problem he, for one,
did not intend to get within a hundred miles of her.

If she was the loyal soldier-citizen he believed her to be there would
be no problem.  But until she proved that beyond all possible doubt it
was wiser not to take any chances.  As long as she was marooned in
Nebraska she could not warp his own mental processes or affect his
deliberations in any way.  And he would circumvent any treachery by
cutting Wallis out of the planning process they had begun that very
day.  He would continue to receive documentation but it would not be
the real thing.

Only Malone and the other units would know the final plan.  Roz and
Steve would be left in the dark.  If they played their parts, all well
and good, if not, well ... Amtrak could survive the loss of a
wagon-train.

Sensitives like Roz and Steve were a lurking cancer; a menace to the
system.  Their elimination - by death, or permanent transfer to the
overground - was the only way to secure the future of the Federation.

The Department of Psionics would be discredited, disbanded; Karlstrom's
doubts would be vindicated.  AMEXICO could return to the tried and
tested ways of secret warfare, and its director would sleep more
soundly in his bed.

It was a neat, satisfying scenario, but Karlstrom knew from experience
that things never went entirely to plan.

Somewhere along the line somebody always fucked-up.

The reason why he had held his job for so long was because he was also
an expert in containment - the art of damage limitation.

Disclosure was a central feature of that art.  You never told anyone
anything they did not need to know, and you never ever gave them bad
news when good news might be just around the corner.  That was why
Karlstrom had decided not to tell the President-General about Roz
Brickman's new and alarming capability.  If challenged, he would defend
himself- like all canny administrators - by saying he was waiting for a
fuller report.

CHAPTER FOUR

After the violent confrontation that preceded the wounding of
Clearwater, Steve had not been looking forward to telling Cadillac that
she was now on board Red River, but when he finally caught up with the
Mute and Malone's renegades, it did not go as badly as he had
expected.

Cadillac - still crippled with guilt over his part in the affair- was
so relieved to learn that Clearwater was alive, he brushed aside the
awkward fact that she was in the hands of the Federation.

Having come prepared for a bitter wrangle, Steve found the Mute's
fatalistic reaction somewhat disconcerting.

Malone, of course, was still posing as the stalwart leader of a
renegade band and Cadillac- while appearing somewhat less than
overjoyed to find himself in their company - gave no sign of being
aware that Malone and his henchmen were undercover agents or that,
during Malone's brief absence, he had been picked up by a Sky-Rider of
Air-Mexico and flown into the Federation for a head-to-head with
Karlstrom and Wallis.

Steve, who had been one of the main items on the agenda, was also
unaware of Malone's flying visit to Grand Central.  Wallis had merely
told him that Karlstrom had approved his outline plan.  He was to
proceed on the assumption that an attack on Red River would take place;
the final game-plan would be conveyed to him when all the pieces were
on the board.

Cadillac already knew he and Roz could communicate telepathically.

Steve was now obliged to repeat the story for Malone's benefit, unaware
he had already been briefed by Karlstrom.  And Malone, alerted by
Cadillac's ill-considered claim that Steve was an undercover agent, had
to appear to accept his story whilst pretending (for Cadillac's
benefit) to secretly mistrust him!

As Jake Nevill had observed on the wagon-train, there were so many
layers of deception it was difficult to keep your place in the
script.

The swirling cross-current of lies threatened to become a vortex which,
if they were not careful, could send them and the whole operation down
the tube.

Given the no-nonsense character which he had adopted for his role as a
renegade, the agent code-named HIGH-SIERRA was put into some difficulty
by the revelation of the telepathic link between Roz and Steve.  As
'Malone' he couldn't just let it pass without comment; on the other
hand, as Steve's covert ally, he didn't want to make a big deal out of
it.  Having talked to Karlstrom, he had anticipated this topic entering
the conversation and had been searching for a way to deal with it since
boarding the Sky-River for the return trip.  He decided to maintain a
healthy scepticism bordering on the dismissive, tempered with a spirit
of enquiry.

'You telling me you can speak to each other without a radio?"

'Well, we don't actually speak but we can communicate specific items of
information.  It's like hearing a voice inside your head, but that
voice isn't real.  The sound doesn't physically travel through the
air.

It's the same principle as a radio transmitter, but these are thought
waves.  The voice I've mentioned - you don't actually hear it, you just
imagine you do - like when people speak to you in dreams.  You can see
their lips moving; what you are saying to each other makes sense, you
are conscious of their voices but there is no sound.  Because, by
itself, your brain can't make a noise.  It needs a tongue, lungs and a
larynx to tell you what it's thinking, and it can't decipher external
noise without filtering it through an ear."

'I think I've got the message,' said Malone.

'On the other hand,' continued Steve, 'If you're transmitting a feeling
- joy, pain, terror - or the image of a particular place, you don't
need words.  You experience the same sensation, images registered by
their mind are transmitted simultaneously into your own.  You see what
they see - as it happens.  The way part of your mind can picture all
kinds of things while you're listening to somebody talk - the way
you're doing now."

'That's what bugs me,' said Malone.  'How d'you know it's someone
else's thoughts and not your own?"

Steve shrugged.  'You just do.  There's a kind of tingling, a
coolness.

I can't explain it, but if it happened to you, you'd know what I
mean."

'Could it happen to me?  Can your kin-sister beam this junk to anyone
she chooses?"

'No.  That would be like COLUMBUS trying to transmit data to someone
whose work-station wasn't equipped with a VDU.  Your brain has to be
able to make the right connections.  Just don't ask me what they are.

We discovered we had this ability because we were brought up
together.

I suppose I must have been about five or six years old when it
started.

To us then, it was just a game.  There may be others but no one has
come through to us.  Roz is my only contact and vice versa."

'So what's she doing now?"

'Can't tell you.  The truth is, as I got older, I became scared about
what we'd been doing.  In the Federation, it doesn't pay to be too
different from everyone else.  Especially in that area.  It's too much
like Mute magic.  Besides - who could you tell without getting into
trouble?  That's why I shut down that side of my mind, didn't answer
and tried my best not to let her through.

Eventually it worked.  Either that or she gave up trying."

'So how come you're back in touch?"

Steve realized that Malone wasn't just extending this conversation for
the benefit of Cadillac and himself.  He was quizzing him on behalf of
Karlstrom as well.

'It happened when I came up for my first overground solo and caught my
first glimpse of the blue-sky world.

The Shock reopened the link between us.  But then a lot of strange
things happened to me that day."

'I know what you mean.  It can be quite a moment."  One which, given
his allegiance to the Federation, Malone was still trying to come to
terms with.  'Still no joy with Roz?"

He demanded.

'No.  If she needs to come through, she will."

Malone laughed dismissively.  'I'll believe it when I see it!  You've
got what it takes, Brickman, but like a lot of guys who are fast on
their feet, you're full of bullshit!"  'Yeah, I know it sounds that
way.

If we have time, I'm hoping to convince you you're wrong."

Malone jerked a thumb at Cadillac.  'This is the guy you've got to work
on.  Know what your so-called friend here.  thinks you are?  An
undercover Fed!"  Steve met this news with a dry laugh.  'Does he...

?"

Cadillac, who was totally unprepared for this embarrassing disclosure,
stammered: 'Now, uhh - w-wait a minute!  I didn't put it exactly like
that -' 'That's okay,' said Steve amiably.  'I should have expected you
to try and get even."  He turned back to Malone.  'We have a few
personal problems that need ironing out."

'Yeah, so I gather,' chuckled Malone.  'Somethin' to do with you
jackin' up his beaver."

The use of that word riled Steve but there was little he could do about
it.  Malone was too big and too mean and Steve needed his wholehearted
cooperation.  'It's a long story .  . ."

'Save it,' said Malone.  'I'm all smoked out."  It was a phrase, coined
by users of rainbow-grass, which meant they'd had a surfeit of
psychedelic fantasies.

As Malone turned on his heel, Steve put a hand to his forehead.  'Wait
a minute!  Roz is coming through!"  The renegade paused with evident
irritation.  Cadillac rose from the rock he'd been sitting on.

'It's a message for you.  From Clearwater."  He frowned as he mouthed
the next few phrases, then repeated them to Cadillac.  'She wants you
to rescue her from the wagon-train ' 'From Red River?  Nothin' to
it!"

scoffed Malone.

'- Roz too.  She wants to join us."  A pregnant pause then - 'The
wagon-train has been ordered to stay in Nebraska... and patrol
westwards.  along the line of the Platte River."

'Are you sure they are going to keep Clearwater aboardT' 'Yes."  Steve
concentrated again.  'It's too risky to fly her out and.  they can't
off-load her because.  all the other wagon-trains are committed
elsewhere."

Malone decided to ask an awkward question.  He had to pick at Steve's
story in order to enhance his own credibility and also to build up
Steve's.  'There's something fishy about all this.  I know this
kin-sister of yours is working both sides of the track but why would
Red River waste time on a wounded Mute?  One more, one less - what does
it matter to them?  Why are they keeping her alive?  Is there something
you haven't told met Steve appealed to Cadillac and received his
permission to speak.  'They're keeping her alive because they know
she's important to the Clan m'call.  She's a summoner.

A very powerful one.  And that's not bullshit.  She is dynamite."

'How do they know that?  Did you tell 'emT' 'No.  I told Roz when we
met in Grand Central early last year.  I found out later our
conversation was bugged."

'So...?"

Steve closed his eyes again and worked his fingers across his brow.

'Roz says the decision has come from Grand Central.  They think that if
they leave Clearwater on board Red River, the Clan M'Call will try and
rescue her."

'Nahh,' said Malone.  'They ain't gotta hope in hell."

'On the face of it, no.  But the clan is led by another summoner called
Mr Snow.  He's old but he's still big trouble.  I was on board The Lady
from Louisiana when he almost wrecked her in 2989."

Malone looked suitably impressed.  'You mean that Battle of the Now and
Then River?  Even I've heard of that.  Jeer!  Was that him?"

'Yes it was!"  exclaimed Cadillac.  'And I took part in that battle
too!"  Malone looked at the Mute with new respect.  'Is that so?  Well,
I've gotta tell you.  It's no secret I've never been overly fond of you
people, but that's something' to be proud of.  It's not often the
Federation gets a hiding like that.  Hell, I wish I'd been there."

Cadillac squared his shoulders.  'The Plainfolk fight their own
battles!"  'Sure.  But that's no reason why we couldn't put our heads
together.  I know how those goddam things work.

Fact is, quite a few of the boys put in time on the trains.

Who knows?  Might come up with some ideas..."

Cadillac didn't respond.

Malone looked at Steve.  'Let's say - just for argument's sake - you
captured a train.  More or less in one piece.  What would you and your
Mute friends do with it once you've got Roz and Clearwater away?"

'That's for Cadillac to say.  But if you're asking me, they won't do
anything with it.  By the time they've finished, there'll be nothing
left."

The news provoked a sigh of regret.  'Seems a shame a top-class
fighting vehicle like that.  It's a pity you can't figure a way to get
your friends out and leave it more or less in one piece.  If the
M'Calls took over Red River and let my boys help them run it.  Hell -',
Malone grinned, '- the Federation really would have a fight on their
hands!"  'Yes, they would,' agreed Steve.  'And if you laid hands on a
few Skyhawks, Cadillac here knows how to fly."

'No kidding..."

'Yup.  He's a real ace."

Unaware that Steve was watching him closely, Cadillac drew himself up,
his chest swelling like a mating cock-bird.

'And not only that!  I designed and built rocket-powered planes for the
Iron Masters of Ne-Issan!"  'Did you now?"  Malone turned to Steve.

'How come you didn't tell me about this back at the camp site?"

'I did mention he was something special."

'Yeah, but I didn't realize he was that special."

Steve shrugged.  'Like I said, it's a long story."

'Yeah, well, I think we've got a good thing going here."

Malone laid a fatherly hand on Cadillac's shoulder.  'How does this
sound, good buddy?  Cut us in for a slice of the pie, and if we manage
to grab this wagon-train, you can be head of the air force!"  Steve
laughed disgustedly.  'Aww, c'mon, guys, stop jerking off!  This is a
pipe dream!  There's no way the M'Calls could capture a wagon-train.

I'm not saying Mr Snow couldn't wreck one.  He came pretty close to
doing that at the Now and Then River.  But capturing one in working
order.  hell!"  He laughed again.  'Can you see a wagon-master lowering
the ramps to let a screaming bunch of Mutes on board?"

Malone's brow furrowed.  'No..."

'Exactly.  It's a total waste of time to even think about it.  Cadillac
and I have already been through this.  That was what started the
argument which brought out the knives.  I wanted to try and rescue
Roz.

He said it couldn't be done.  And he was right."

'I didn't say it couldn't be done,' said Cadillac.  'I said I wasn't
prepared to waste the lives of'my clanfolk trying to rescue your
kin-sister."

'Whatever you say, Caddy.  I'm not gonna argue with you any more.  I
broke my blood-oath once and look what happened.  I lost Clearwater."

'We both lost Clearwater.  But she is not lost forever.

Thanks to you, she is alive - and has asked us to deliver her!"

'Aren't you forgetting the prophecy?  Isn't she supposed to go into the
Federation?  She asked Mr Snow if she would die in the darkness of
their world and he said, "No, you will live"."

'I am a wordsmith as well as a seer,' exclaimed Cadillac.

'I forget nothing.  And only a seer can interpret the images he draws
from the stones.  In speaking of you I said this: He will come in the
guise of a friend with Death hiding in his shadow and he will carry you
away on a river of blood.  I said nothing about her going into the
Federation.

Clearwater just assumed that.  In replying to her question - Am I to
die in the darkness of their world, or will I live to see the sun
again?  - the Old One merely said she would live.  He said nothing
about the dark cities."

'So she's not destined to go into the Federation..."

'Not in my reading.  For me, the images apply to our time in
Ne-Issan.

You came in the guise of a friend, offering to help me, but you were
really planning to wreck my work."  He held up a hand.  'No!  Don't
interrupt!  The death hiding in your shadow was your secret link with
the Federation who supplied the devices you used to destroy the Heron
Pool.  The slaughter surrounding our escape was the river of blood on
which you carried Clearwater away."  Cadillac smiled disdainfully.

'You see how it all fits together?"

'Yeah, it's neat.  Okay, so I blew you out of a job.

And yes, I conned the Federation into thinking I was working with
them.

It was the only way to get you out of there.  I'd promised Mr Snow I'd
do my best to rescue the pair of you - and that's what I did.  Your
place is with the Clan m'call.  And if you're still peeved because I
forced you to face up to reality, well tough on you!"  'The reality,
Brickman, is that Clearwater is now a prisoner of the Federation, held
on board Red River.

And until she is rescued, you have only kept half your promise to the
Old One."

'Sweet Sky-Mother!  Caddy, for crissakes, be practical!

Okay, Clearwater is not dying but she needs medical attention!  That's
why all this talk of storming the train is sheer lunacy.  She can be
moved, yes, but you're not going to be able to walk out with her thrown
over your shoulder!

'She'll have to be evacuated properly - preferably not in the middle of
a fire-fight - and for a while she'll need to be cared for by a
doctor.

The only person we can rely on to do that is Roz.  Which means we have
to get her out in one piece as well, plus some of the drugs, dressings
and equipment that are stored in the blood-wagon 'We have no need of
such things.  The Old One can heal her."

'The Old One didn't save everybody after the battle with the
wagon-train.  He can set simple fractures and use plant-based
substances to keep some types of wounds free of infection but he's not
a miracle worker.  You might as well stuff his herbal remedies up your
ass for all the good they're going to do Clearwater.  You are right, I
goofed - but at least I managed to save her life."

'And I'm grateful for that..."

'Good.  All you've got to do now is get used to the idea that we can't
get her off the train.  I'm the only person who can rescue her."

'Oh?  How?"

'By switching sides - talking them into believing I'm still the
straight arrow they thought I was.  I'll have to go back to the
Federation with Clearwater and then, when she's better, try and find
some way to get her and Roz out into the blue-sky world."

Cadillac looked dismayed.  'But that could take months, years!"  'It
could do,' admitted Steve.  'You got any better ideas?"

'I don't know - surely there must be some way we could ' 'Caddy!  For
the last time!  Forget the fucking train!

What are you gonna do?  Hang around in the hope that someone's gonna
leave a door open?  There's absolutely no way your people can get on
board!  I've served on one of those things!  The spectre of Mutes
running wild inside a wagon-train is the nightmare all Trail-Blazers
share.

But it doesn't keep them awake at night because they know it can't
happen.  That's why the trains are designed the way they are.  Even if
you got past the guns and the steam jets there's still no way you can
get inside.  When those ramps are up, those wagons are shut tighter
than a gnat's ass!"  Malone came out of his reverie.  'The wagon-master
. . ."

Steve had almost forgotten he was there.  'What?"

'The wagon-master.  He wouldn't lower a ramp for a bunch of Mutes, but
he might lower it to let a group of Trail-Blazers on board - 'specially
if they had some lumpheads in hot pursuit."

Steve saw Cadillac's interest quicken.  'Meaning...?"

'Well, it's just an idea but.  if we were somehow able to get hold of
enough helmets, uniforms and rifles..."

'Disguise ourselves as Trackers?"  asked Cadillac.

'There'd have to be enough of us to seize control of the ramp and hold
it long enough to get more of your people aboard."

'You're crazy,' said Steve.  'D'you think the guys running Red River
are just gonna sit there and let it happen?

As soon as you show your hand at the top of the ramp, they'll close the
fire doors at either end, unhitch the wagon then pull away and reform,
leaving you sitting there with nowhere to go!"  'They could do,'
admitted Malone.  'But I'm hoping this Mr Snow character might be able
to do something about that.  But if you think he can't deliver then
forget it.  To pull this off, we need brains, brawn and magic."

He grinned sheepishly.  'Never thought I'd hear myself say that."

'The Old One has the power,' said Cadillac.  'He will know what to do
when the times comes."

'Does that mean we're in business?"  asked Malone.

'No.  It means I'll think about it."

Cadillac had tried to sound non-committal but Steve knew exactly what
was going through his mind.

And so did Malone.  The lump had taken the bait.  He was on the
hook...

Later, as dusk fell, Steve caught Malone sitting by himself in front of
a small camp-fire.  He hunkered down beside the brooding renegade and
stretched his hands over the flames.

'How am I doing?"  asked Malone.

'With Cadillac?"  Steve smiled.  'Great.  Just keep oiling him up.

You'll have him eating out of your hand."

'Brown-nosing ain't exactly my style,' said Malone.

'But if that's what it takes to get a result..."

'It's a relief to be working with someone of your experience."

'Don't get smart, Brickman."

'I wouldn't dare.  The last time I spoke out of turn, you loosened a
couple of teeth and almost broke my jaw."  He glanced over his
shoulders.  'I'd better go.  We shouldn't be seen too often with our
heads together."

'You're right.  But listen - these seeing-stones.  are they for real?

Can that lump actually tell what's gonna happen?"

'You'd better believe it,' said Steve.  'He saw both of us going down
under the water, and a week or so later we were trapped on a sinking
boat and nearly drowned!

Creepy, huh?"

'Yeah."  Malone shifted uneasily.  'I hate all this magic shit."

'You're not the only one,' replied Steve.  And he was not just thinking
of Nevill.  Steve liked situations where you could figure all the
angles, plan several moves ahead.  The trouble with magic was it was so
fucking unpredictable.  People were bad enough, but magicwas unfettered
by the rules of logic, the scientific laws that governed cause and
effect.  'But don't let's knock it,' he concluded.  'It's saved my ass
several times already."

'That's what worries me,' growled Malone.  'Bouncing beaver may have
softened your brains a little but you're no dick-head."

'Thanks..."

'If a guy like you takes it seriously then we could be in big
trouble."

'You mean with Mr Snow?"

'Yeah.  It looks like our friend here will run him up the ramp but how
the fuck do we put the brakes on someone like that before he puts a
bolt of lightning up everybody's ass?"

'That's where Roz, my kin-sister comes in."

Malone accepted this with a nod.  'Mother mentioned something about a
demo.  Is she a summoner too?"

Steve laughed at the idea.  'Of course not.  She's a straight-A like
you and me.  But being a telepath, her brain - like mine - must have
some extra capability, or be using circuits we all possess but which
most of us never plug into.  And now, suddenly, another part of her
brain has been switched on, giving her the ability to take temporary
control of other peoples minds - by altering their perception of
reality."

'Whatever that is,' grunted Malone '- but how's this gonna fix Mr
Snow?"

'Jeer, what a question!  This new power's come as much a surprise to
her as it had to everyone else."

'C'mon, Brickman!  If I've gotta put my ass on the line to nail Mister
Magic, I wanna know what she's providin' in the way of back-up.  You
were there when she spooked Wallis and the other guys.  You tryin' to
make out you and she didn't connect over this?"

'No.  But all I got were a series of sensations, not the workshop
manual."  Steve hesitated.  'The best way to explain it is to imagine
Mr Snow is a radio transceiver and she's a heavy burst of static.  When
he switches on, she's gonna swamp the air-waves and block out all
incoming and outgoing signals.  If she can prevent his brain from
functioning coherently then, in theory, he won't be able to draw in
these forces or direct them outwards on to a specific target.

'Sounds plausible.  Question is, will it work on the day?"

'That's something we're gonna have to take a chance On."

'Great.  That really builds up my confidence.  One last thing.  That
business with Roz and the message from Clearwater.  Was that for
real?

Did she really come through then or were you just juicing our
feathered friend?"

Steve smiled knowingly.  He warmed his hands one last time then rose to
his feet.  'No point in answering that, is there?  You don't believe in
all this magic shit."

Malone's eyes narrowed but his battered face was not unfriendly.

'Gidd-outta-here I' Since leaving the Clan Kojak on the shores of Lake
Mi-Shiga, Steve, Cadillac and Clearwater had followed, wherever
possible, the line of the ancient hardway listed on Federation maps as
Interstate 80.  In the pre-Holocaust era it had been part of a
continuous east-west ribbon of concrete that began in the Big Apple and
ended at Denver, Colorado, passing through Ohio, Indiana, Illinois,
Iowa and Nebraska on the way.

They had long since gone off the left hand edge of the map that Steve
had found on board the aircraft they had stolen at Long Point, but the
clans they met along the way all agreed that if they continued towards
the setting sun they would reach the edge of a wide endless river.

Since they had already crossed the Mississippi, Steve knew from the
maps he'd seen during his training at Rio Lobo that this had to be the
Miz-Hurry - the Mute name for the Missouri.

The crumbling weed-covered remains of Interstate 80 had finally petered
out some miles from the river, but eventually they found themselves on
the edge of a one hundred foot high bluff overlooking the east bank.

On the far side lay the buried remains of Omaha.  The headquarters of
Strategic Air Command, sited at Offut AFB just south of the city had
made Omaha a prime target in the global nuclear war which brought 20th
century civilization to an abrupt end.

In the public archives which could be accessed via COLUMBUS, the blame
for the Holocaust was laid firmly on the Mutes; the role played by the
Russians was ignored, the very existence of the USSR, along with all
other nation-states beyond the borders of the USA, had been erased from
the records and the minds of the Federation's soldier-citizens.

According to COLUMBUS there was only one continent, America: only one
race, Trackers - born to inherit the blue-sky world once it had been
cleansed of the subhuman scum spawned in the hell-fires of the
Holocaust, the incendiary tidal wave of murder and mindless destruction
that had burned every city, township and hamlet to the ground and which
- as everyone knew - had been the work of the degenerate, drug-crazed
hordes who had fathered the Mutes.

It was an agreeable fiction: the historical fact, insofar as it
concerned Omaha, was that the air base, the city and its riverbank
neighbour, Council Bluffs, Iowa, had been obliterated by a multiple
strike which included both air and ground bursts.

A single H-Bomb would have sufficed, but despite the endless attempts
(some genuine, other entirely fraudulent) to reduce the stockpiles of
nuclear weapons, the politicians and the generals who held the fate of
the planet in their hands were still wedded to the concept of
overkill.

The first missile obliterated its target, the remainder merely
rearranged the glowing ashes and ensured that the key personnel
sheltering in SAC's bomb-proof bunker beneath Offut AFB stayed there
permanently.

The initial fire-flash which, in its first few milliseconds of
incandescent life was hotter than a solar flare, had vaporized all the
timber-frame houses and reduced their brick-built neighbours to
cinders.  The four bridges linking the two cities, scarred and riven
but still standing after the first blast, had disintegrated in the
second, their steel-work fusing with stone and concrete into huge
red-hot gobbets of volcanic lava which had been hurled into the boiling
river below.

Half-submerged in the wide shallow waters, they had fused and cooled to
form irregular clusters of giant stepping stones, their jagged edges
worn smooth by the slow-moving, endless flow of the river.  Over the
centuries, ash and dirt, settling on the exposed surfaces had provided
a fertile bed for airborne seeds, and debris floating downstream had
become entangled with the rockpiles, forming a ragged gap-toothed weir
thatched with wild grasses and a scattering of trees and bushes whose
trailing roots were draped with river weeds.

Driving what remained of their herd of captured horses into the
tranquil waters upstream of the highest weir, the trio crossed over
into Nebraska.  In its early, troubled history, the territory had
proved so unappealing to would-be settlers, it had become known as the
'corridor state'.  Thousands of pioneering families passed through it
on the Oregon and Mormon Trails which converged at Fort Kearney then
tracked westwards along the line of the Platte River.  The Mormons kept
to the north bank and were later followed by the riders of the Pony
Express; those bound for Oregon stayed on the southern side until the
river split into its main northern and southern tributaries some
two-thirds of the way across Nebraska.

From here, the trails angled north-westwards, each convoy of covered
wagons and handcarts keeping to its chosen side of what was now called
the North Platte on the long haul up towards the high plains of
Wyoming.  It was only after they had passed through Caspar and had
turned away from the river that their parallel paths finally came
together at the South Pass through the Rockies before going their
different ways again at Fort Bridget in the south-west corner of the
state.

At this point, those on the Oregon Trail were only just over haft-way
to their final destination, but the Mormons, whose millennial fervour
had roused their more orthodox eastern neighbours to violence, were
close to their journey's end - the great salt lake in whose fertile
valley they were to build the city that would become a monument to
their unshakeable faith in a God who had not only walked the shores of
Galilee but also the plains of North America.

A faith which had not saved them: a monument which the Holocaust had
turned into a tomb.

Steve, Cadillac and Clearwater had been intercepted by Malone some
forty miles east of Kearney, just north of the river near navref Grand
Island.  On the fatal afternoon when the Skyhawk had made its strafing
run, Red River had been a hundred and fifty miles south of the
renegade's campsite.  Acting under the orders relayed by Wallis - head
of the AMEXICO task force -' Commander James Fargo had kept her rolling
northwards while his aircraft had gone out to pick up Clearwater,
closing the gap between the wagon-train and his second visitor Steve.

After leaving the train and crossing back over on to the north bank of
the shallow river, Steve had retraced the' route taken by the Mormon
leader Brigham-Young 'and his flock of zealots.  By the time he caught
up with Malone, the renegades were over a hundred miles west of the
ill-fated campsite and had already passed beyond the fork in the river
at navref North.  Platte - a long-vanished city whose name came from
its location on the slim point of land between the convergent
tributaries.

Cadillac knew the place well.  It was burned into his memory.  He had
journeyed here with Mr Snow and a posse of M'Call Bears led by
Motor-Head.  And at the Old One's bidding he had searched for and found
a seeing-stone.  A stone full of terrifying images, heavy with blood,
death, sorrow and utter desolation.

This was the Old One's dying place.  The memory of that revelation
brought back the crushing weight of guilt and grief the act of
foretelling had !aid upon him.  Urging his horse into a gallop, he
pulled ahead of his companions to hide the bitter tears streaming down
his cheeks.

He wanted to distance himself from this dreadful place, but he knew it
had already laid claim to his soul and was content to await his
return.

The central and western thirds of Nebraska consisted of a vast treeless
plain, rolling uplands thinly seeded with buffalo grass and sage,
scored here and there by river valleys and streams that drained into
the Platte or the Missouri.  These valle,s were the only shelter from
the howling blizzards which had driven out the early 'sod-busters'
after the sleet storms had levelled the crops they'd planned to live on
through the long winter.

And it was here that the trees lay hidden, cottonwood, willow and elm
huddled side by side out of reach of the cutting winds.

From North Platte, the river plain varied in width from one mile to
fifty, narrowing then broadening, then narrowing again as it squeezed
through the surrounding uplands in its gentle climb towards the Goshen
Hole on the state border.

At Scotts Bluff, Cadillac encountered another familiar land-mark, a
huge yellow-ochre wedge of barren rock rising eight hundred feet above
the surrounding landscape.

This was the only signpost that now remained to tell the traveller he
was about to leave Nebraska and enter Wyoming.  No other evidence that
these two states had once existed as legislative and economic entities
remained.  The traffic signs and roadside buildings had gone, the
abandoned, pillaged hulks of the last few Highway Patrol cars had long
since crumbled into powdery flakes of rust; the more resistant parts of
the engine and chassis disappearing beneath the creeping carpet of
vegetation.  Day by day, year by year, century after century, the
planet had set about the slow task of healing itself.  Now, on the eve
of the third millennium, apart from the fading lines of the hardways
and the few weathered ruins of collaps stone bridges, little remained
of what once had been.  Twentieth century America had been buried with
the same relentless efficiency as the ancient cities of Sumeria.

Now at four thousand feet above sea level and still climbing, Cadillac
led the way along the river trail.

Malone, after privately consulting his well-concealed miniature map
(printed on a square of silk supplied to AMEXICO by Ieyasu's contact
men) and a tiny electronic device that took bearings from navigation
beacons and converted them into map coordinates, found that the nearest
navref point was a township called Torrington, on the old US Highway
26.

For Cadillac, visual confirmation that they were back in his home
territory came in the shape of the Laramie Mountains whose densely
forested slopes were home to a variety of conifers including the
towering ponderosa pine.  Rising like the sloping ramparts of an
overgrown fort to a high point of ten thousand feet, the Laramie range
forced the river to run around its northern flank like a moat, passing
through navref Caspar before turning southwards and snaking uphill
towards its source among the snow-melt streams of the Rockies.

It was on the plain beyond the western flank of the Laramie range that
the M'Calls had made their first costly attack upon The Lady, and when
Cadillac reached the shrunken lake where the river had been dammed to
form the Glendo Reservoir, he turned left and led Steve and Malone's
band of renegades towards a trail that wound up and over the
pine-covered slopes.

Halfway between the river and the hills they came across a M'Call
turf-marker - a tall pole adorned with carved plaques of wood, bones
and eagle's wing feathers.

A mile further on, Cadillac halted the column as a large posse of Mute
warriors with the same golden feathers attached to their leather
helmets emerged from the trees and formed a line across their path some
two hundred yards ahead of the lead horses.  Some carried the
revolving-drum rifles given to the clan by the Iron Masters under the
deal struck between Mr Snow and Lord Yama-Shita, the remainder were
armed with crossbows.

Malone eased his own rifle from his shoulder and laid it across his
lap, a finger on the trigger.  'Friends of yours?"

'Yes."  Cadillac had already made preparations for this encounter.

Pulling the elegantly curved Iron Master bow from the quiver attached
to the left side of his saddle, he notched an arrow to the draw-string
and presented its spear-shaped metal point to Malone.  A small bundle
of dried red leaves was tied to the shaft immediately behind it.

Malone applied a battery-powered hot-wire to the tips of several
leaves.  They started to smoulder, emitting a dense white smoke.

Pinching them together, Cadillac blew on them until the whole bundle
was alight then aimed his left arm at the sky and sent the arrow
soaring high into the air.

The slender arch of smoke formed as the arrow fell to earth behind the
line of warriors was the sign used by the Plainfolk when they wished to
parley with an opposing group.  The warriors responded by raising a
clenched fist which they then opened to display the palm of their
hand.

The invitation had been accepted.

Cadillac dismounted, planted his green flag in the ground and strode
forward as a group of Mutes in the centre of the line ran to meet
him.

Their leader was Purple-Rain, one of the Bears who had come to the aid
of Clearwater and Cadillac after the latter's duel with the fearsome
Shakatak D'Vine.  Cadillac embraced him warmly then grasped the
outstretched hand of his excited companions.  When the first flurry of
greetings had been exchanged, Cadillac invited Steve and Malone to join
him.

Introducing them, he said: 'You already know Cloud-Warrior.

It was he who rescued me from the Iron Masters.

And this is Malone, chief of the redskins who took us under their wing
and journeyed with us across the great plains.  They have the bodies of
sand-burrowers but their hearts are with the Plainfolk and they have
but one wish - to fight side by side with us against the iron-snakes!'
'Heyy-yahh!  chorused the warriors, brandishing their rifles and
crossbows in the air.  As the rest of the posse came forward to join
them Steve encountered several familiar faces.  Most belonged to
warriors who had attended his quarter-staff classes or had been part of
the delegation that had travelled to the trading post and they greeted
him with equal warmth.

The uninhibited way in which Steve responded to the beanlike hugs and
ritual hand-slaps turned Malone's stomach.  He could not abide physical
contact with Mutes but he could not afford to be the odd man out.

Forcing a smile onto his face, he shook hands with each member of the
posse, disguising his desire to murder every single one of them behind
a convipcing display of camaraderie.

Purple-Rain ran his-eyes over the assembled horsemen and
foot-soldiers.

He had never seen horses before but he had something far more important
on his mind.  'Where is Clearwater?"

Cadillac's smile vanished.  'She was struck down by the
sand-burrowers."  His words drew a mournful groan from the posse.  'But
she is not dead!"  he cried.  'She lies not far from here in the belly
of an iron-snake and it is from there we must rescue her!"  Purple-Rain
winced at the prospect of storming a wagon-train.  'Can she not use the
gift of earth magic to free herself?"

'No.  She is too weak.  The power will not return until her wounds are
healed.  Attacking the iron-snake will be a daunting task but,' - he
indicated Malone and the renegades with a sweeping gesture - 'we are
not alone.

Our friends here know its secrets and are willing to fight by our
side.

The M'Calls proved their bravery in the Battle of the Now and Then
River but raw courage is not enough.  This time we will use cunning and
stealth.

The power of the Old One allied to the secret knowledge of these
redskins will free Clearwater and bring the sand-burrowers to their
knees!"  'But the Old One is not here,' replied Purple-Rain.

Cadillac blanched.  'Not here?!'

'No.  He has gone to the tradimg post."

Steve was equally appalled by the news, and he could see that Malone
was not too happy either.  'When did he leave?"

'Three days ago."

Shit, shit and triple shit... This was a major setback.

Mr Snow's presence was absolutely vital.  Roz's newly-revealed powers
were frightening but they were virtually untried: an unknown
quantity.

No one could dispute Mr Snow's powers as a summoner.  He was the great
equalizer; the spearhead of their attack and their first line of
defence, the only sure means they had to turn the tables on Malone and
the forces who would be lying in wait for them aboard Red River.  And
they had missed him by three days!  What a pill!

The trade delegation would not return for at least five weeks.  Steve
had asked for and obtained six weeks in which to set up the attack on
Red River.  They had already used up eight days of that on the present
journey to Wyoming.  If the delegation was not delayed it now meant
that Mr Snow would return just as the present deadline expired leaving
him no time to come up with a game-plan in which his magic would be the
trump card!

They needed more elbow room.  He would have to ask Malone to arrange an
extension.  But that was not as simple as it sounded.  It was to the
Federation's advantage to keep the pressure on the M'Calls - forcing
them to attack the train without adequate preparation within a
time-frame and in a specific location which was not of their own
choosing.  But how could he delay the inevitable confrontation without
making Mother suspicious... ?

Cadillac turned to Steve and Malone, his newfound confidence waning
visibly.  'What are we going to do?"  Good question...

'I'll tell you what we ain't gonna do,' growled Malone.

'An' that's attack this goddam wagon-train of yours without a summoner
up front.  You sold me on this magic shit and that's the deal.  If the
old man don't show, we don't go!"  'He'll be back in five weeks!"

pleaded Cadillac.  'Four and a half!"  'Good.  Give us a call then an'
we'll think about it.

Adios, amigo!"  Cadillac caught hold of Malone's arm as the renegade
turned towards his horse.  'Wait -' Malone halted and broke Cadillac's
grip with a knuckle-crunching squeeze.  'Don't ever lay hands on me,
good buddy.  Next time I'll break your fuckin' arm."

The threat was delivered with a smile for the benefit of the watching
warriors.

Steve intervened.  'Hey!  C'mon you guys!  Cool it.  I know how we can
get out of this bind.  I'll ride after him - bring him back."

'It's too late!"  said Cadillac.  'Didn't you hear what he said?  The
delegation left three days ago!  They'll be at the trading post by the
time you catch up with them!"  'I can try, can't I?  Anyway, so
what?"

'Isn't it obvious?  They're not going to drop everything and come back
here after going all that way.  They'll stay there and trade.  And it's
no good thinking you're going to persuade the Old One to get on the
back of the horse, because you won't!"  'So what is it you're trying to
tell me?"

'It's no good going after them because you won't bring them back any
sooner."

'You underestimate me, Caddy.  Especially my powers of persuasion.

We've got to try.  Can't you see that?

Okay, maybe I won't be able to bring them back in time but someone has
to go - to warn them."

'About what?"

'About the Yama-Shita!  Have you forgotten what happened on the
wheel-boat?  Those japs know that you and I were part of the group that
destroyed the Heron Pool and that we're linked to whoever blew that
boatload of samurai out of the water!"  Cadillac hesitated, unwilling
to come to the inevitable conclusion.  'The commanders of the boat knew
but ' 'Supposing they sent word to Sara-Kusa by carrier-pigeon?"

'You mean before the boat went down..."

'There was plenty of time.  We were locked up for several hours."

'So if they did..."

'The family will have linked you and Clearwater to the M'Calls.  And Mr
Snow, the man who set up the deal with Lord Yama-Shita to send a
cloud-warrior to Ne-Issan is on his way to the trading post with five
hundred M'Calls.

If I were a member of the Yama-Shita family I'd regard this as a golden
opportunity to get even - wouldn't you?"

Cadillac paled even further.  'Sweet Sky-Mother.  It never occurred to
me -' 'That's because you had other more important things to think
about,' said Steve diplomatically.  'Truth is, we've both been
wrong-footed.  I was hoping we'd get back in time."  He shrugged.

'Never mind.  We're still in with a chance."  He eyed Malone.  'I'd
better get moving..."

'You're going now?!"  cried Cadillac.

Steve mounted his horse.  'No point in wasting any time."

'But what about food?"

'Caddy!  I wasn't planning to go totally empty-handed.

Can you rustle up some flat-bread and a pouchful of meat-twists?"

'I'll do better than that.  I'll come with you!"  'uh-uh.  No way.

You and our friend here have got some urgent business to attend to.

You'll be able to see things more clearly if I get out of your hair for
a while.

'All right.  But you must have an escort.  A hand of warriors, at
least."

'Caddy!  I'm going on horseback!  They'll never be able to keep up with
me!"  Cadillac's confidence curve made an upswing.  'You might be able
to outrun them in the first two or three hours, but at the end of the
day, a Mute warrior will be still be running when your mount is on its
knees!"  Steve capitulated.  'Okay.  Go on ahead with Purple-Rain and
get things organized.  I'll wait here with Malone."

'Don't you want to come into the settlement?"

'And get caught up in the celebrations?  It'd take a week to get out of
there!"  An hour later, Cadillac returned with six M'Call Bears led by
a warrior called Cat-Ballou and a She-Wolf, the ever hopeful
Night-Fever.

They were all volunteers who realised the importance of their mission
but apart from Night-Fever - who clearly had a more private celebration
in mind - Steve could see they were somewhat cheesed off at having to
miss out on the party which, apparently, had already got underway.

Having profited from Cadillac's absence to square things with Malone,
Steve took the Mute aside for a final word while his escort loaded the
provisions they had brought onto the two packhorses.

'Take care - and watch those breakers, huh?"

'I will..."

'And don't do anything rash while I'm gone."

'I don't intend to.  But let's get one thing clear, Brickman.  These
are my clanfolk, this is my land, attacking the wagon-train is my idea,
and from now on, I'm in charge."

Steve gathered the reins of his horse and climbed into the saddle.

'Caddy, I wouldn't have it any other way...

CHAPTER FIVE

Du-aruta, the Iron Master's name for the trading-post, was a derivation
of Duluth, Minnesota, the pre-H port situated at the western end of
Lake Superior.  But this was, in fact, something of a misnomer.  As the
accompanying maps show, Duluth had been built on the northern side of
the Lake whereas the trading post had been planted on the opposite
shore near its vanished trading panner, the port of Superior,
Wisconsin.

In the days when they were both thriving transit points for the Great
Lakes freight trade, Duluth and Superior were separated by the St Louis
River which snaked down from northern Minnesota then turned east into a
meandering estuary whose southern bank was eaten away by inlets and
bays.  A triangular chunk of land - on which the town of Superior stood
- pushed the estuary in a north-easterly direction, but on rounding the
point it made a sharp right hand turn into a long narrow lagoon
bisected by the state line.  ' The lagoon itself was separated from
Lake Superior by two low needle-like spits of sand and gravel which
reached out from the opposing shores to form an almost unbroken line
running from the north-west to the southeast.

In pre-Holocaust days the upper and lower sandbars were separated by a
three-hundred foot wide shipping channel kept open by dredgers.  With
the passage of time, the channel had silted up, narrowing to half its
original width, and was now only thigh deep.  The land to the south and
west of the trading post consisted of rolling plains sloping gently
upwards away from the lake, but on the Duluth side, the estuary sandbar
and the lake beyond were dominated by six-hundred foot high bluffs that
rose steeply from the narrow shore.

The first thing that struck Mr Snow on reaching the trading post was
the size of the D'Troit and C'Natti encampments.  Traditionally, the
delegations from the six bloodlines were camped around the outside of a
huge octagon marked out by a line of stones.  The She-Kargo and D'Troit
- who were both allocated two segments faced each other across the
central reservation, flanked on each side by the supposedly neutral,
lesser bloodlines - the M'Waukee, C'Natti, San'Paul and San'Louis.

This arrangement was designed to minimize the violent confrontations
which, despite the general truce and the restraining presence of
marshals and capos, always flared up as groups of young bloods from
both sides prowled around the outer edge of the vast encampment looking
for trouble.

This year, the dispositions of the various groups was the same, but not
only were the individual D'Troit and C'Natti delegations much larger
than usual, there were a great number of turf-markers belonging to
Clans who had never been represented before.

Discreet enquiries through intermediaries elicited the reason: the Iron
Masters, because of some internal upheaval, had withdrawn the boats
which normally called at Bei-Sita, the second trading post serving the
Mute clans inhabiting the plains close to the Eastern Lands - the
pre-Holocaust states of Ohio, Indiana, and the broad peninsular
bordered by Lake Erie, Huron and Michigan - the original home of the
D'Troit.

As a result of this temporary closure, the delegations had made their
way to Du-aruta.  No one wanted to miss the once-yearly opportunity to
exchange skins, furs, dream-cap and rainbow-grass for new knives,
crossbows, tools, woven cloth and utensils.  And, of course, there was
always the hope that more clans would be able to obtain examples of the
rifles supplied to the clan M'Call the year before.

To understand what went through Mr Snow's mind it is necessary to
explain that mathematics was a branch of learning the Plainfolk had
little use for, especially when the sums embraced numbers larger than
twelve - the number of fingers and thumbs possessed by the majority of
Mutes.  It had always been accepted that the She-Kargo were numerically
superior to the D'Troit but prior to this fateful gathering the rival
factions had never carried out a head-count of their supporters.  This
also meant they had no clear idea of the number of warriors their
opponents could muster.  On this occasion however, the D'Troit had
received some outside help.

Over the years of trading with the Mutes, the YamaShita family had
amassed a great deal of information about the various bloodlines and
the multiplicity of clans grouped within.  And with the Iron Master's
passion for paperwork, everything had been duly recorded in great
detail by a battery of scribes.

In some respects, such as the size and breakdown of each clan, they
probably knew more about the Plainfolk than the Plainfolk themselves,
and like any military-minded organization gathering intelligence about
a potential enemy - or client-state - they had even identified the
distinctive headgear and turf-markers that placed a clan within a
particular bloodline but set it apart from its neighbours.

As part of the larger picture the wheel-boat captains knew the relative
size of the various bloodlines and the numbers they could expect to
find waiting for them at the trading post.  The She-Kargo bloodline
contained 242 clans, the M'Waukee 103 and the San'Paul 38.  Each sent
an average of 150 delegates - making a grand total for the She-Kargo
faction of some fifty-seven thousand five hundred delegates - adult
males and females from 15 to 55, all fit and able to fight.

Under normal circumstances the D'Troit, C'Natti and San'Louis would
have fielded, collectively, some fifty-two thousand delegates giving
the She-Kargo faction the numerical edge.  But with the closing of the
Bei-Sita trading post, the D'Troit faction had been swollen by another
92 delegations from the clans whose turf lay to the east of Lake
Michigan.  The total number of C'Natti and San'Louis delegations had
also increased for the same reason.

Added together, this should have produced a grand total of some
seventy-six thousand warriors- large enough to confer a comfortable
margin of superiority.  But each clan had sent an above average number
of delegates.

Reinforced by the unexpectedly large numbers of'journey-men', the
D'Troit, C'Natti and San'Louis had fielded a staggering one hundred and
sixty-three thousand warriors - giving them an advantage of almost
three to one.  With that number of people milling about the camp site,
it was hardly surprising that the She-Kargo faction thought the odds
were even greater.

Since they had no independent means of checking out the state of play
at the Bei-Sita trading-post, the She-Kargo were obliged to accept the
explanation they were offered.  It seemed plausible enough but it did
not justify the inflated numbers of journey-men which the D'Troit and
C'Natti had brought with them to trade for goods and weapons.  Some
surreptitious head-counting by the same intrepid intermediaries
established that some D'Troit clans known to be only half the size of
the M'Calls were proposing to exchange over one hundred men and women
whereas the M'Calls themselves had never sent more than fifty down the
river in any one year.

The situation was unique and potentially explosive.  A hastily convened
meeting of elders from the She-Kargo delegations could only envisage
two possible explanations: one - by offering so many 'guest-workers',
the D'Troit and C'Natti hoped to elbow their rivals aside and grab the
lion's share of whatever the Iron Masters had come to trade or, two the
army of journeymen with their yellow headbands were not destined to
sail away across the Great River but were here for some other
purpose.

Either way it spelt trouble.

The M'Call delegation, some seven hundred miles from their settlement,
were too far away to send for reinforcements but some of the other
She-Kargo and M'Waukee delegations whose homes were within a day's run
promptly despatched messengers to summon reinforcements.

All this was done in great secrecy.  Mr Snow and the other wordsmiths
had decided that there was to be no provocation and no outward show of
suspicion.  The explanation furnished by the D'Troit wordsmiths had to
be taken at face value.  By their own sacred tradition, wordsmiths even
from opposing bloodlines - never lied to one another.  If they had not
betrayed their oath, then the Iron Masters must have closed down
Bei-Sita.  The question everyone in the She-Kargo camp was asking was
why?

A hint as to what the answer might be came with the arrival of
Carnegie-Hall, wordsmith of the Clan Kojak from the bloodline of the
M'Waukee.  Entering the bull-rin where the other wordsmiths habitually
gathered to exchange news and gossip, he sought out Mr Snow and under
cover of the formal greetings exchanged on such occasions, passed over
a whispered request for a meeting when darkness fell.

Several hours later when a thousand camp-fires pierced the darkness
like orange blossoms scattered on black velvet, Carnegie-Hall,
accompanied by five Kojak warriors, was led by a M'Call guide into the
small wood west of the camp-site where Mr Snow and his own bodyguard
stood waiting.

The two wordsmiths sat down on talking mats, their faces lit by the
solitary flame of a fire-stone which lay between them.  Its glow which
sharp eyes could have seen from the camp-site was masked by the cloak
Mr Snow had thrown over a nearby bush and the dense undergrowth
beyond.

As a person, Mr Snow would not have given Carnegie-Hall the time of
day, but as a fellow wordsmith he had to be treated with the courtesy
traditionally accorded to all practitioners of the ancient art.

'What say you, brother?  Do you bring me good tidings or bad?"

'I bring news of great happenings.  It is for you to judge whether they
are good or ill.  But first let us speak of The Chosen.  Did your
clansmen return safely and in good spirits?"

Mr Snow was familiar with the term 'The Chosen', but for some reason,
didn't catch on immediately.

'Clansmen...?"

'Cadillac, Clearwater and Cloud-Warrior."

Mr Snow's present anxieties vanished under a great surge of elation.

'They escaped from the Eastern Lands?  I' 'Escaped and more!  They are
The Chosen - the first of the Lost Ones whose return heralds the coming
of Talisman!"  'It is true that these three were born in the shadow of
Talisman.  By what token do you know them as The Chosen?"

'The words were born on my lips!"  exclaimed Carnegie.

'The Thrice-Gifted One appointed me to be the first to recognize them
and name them!  And when the history of the Plainfolk is retold in the
ages to come, the Kojak will be remembered as the clan that first gave
them shelter, and whose valiant warriors played a decisive part in the
victories achieved by their mighty powers!"  'Victories...?"

'Over the arrowheads, the iron-snake and the wheel-boat!"  'Sounds like
they've been busy,' grumped Mr Snow."Tell me more."

Carnegie-Hall gave him the whole story including to his credit - the
treacherous deal struck with Izo Wantanabe which, as events unfolded,
had reinforced his belief that his steps had been guided by Talisman.

And as might be expected he laid great emphasis on the part the Kojak
had played in the destruction of the wheel-boat.

As Mr Snow sat listening to Carnegie's graphic description of how the
Kojak had massacred the horse-borne samurai, red-stripe infantry and
sailors who had struggled ashore, his sense of foreboding increased.

All this had happened weeks ago.  Since when, Cadillac, Clearwater and
Brickman had departed in triumph, with a pile of booty and more than a
hundred head of horses - the four-legged beasts which the dead-faces
had tamed and learned to ride but which, up to that moment, Mr Snow had
never seen.

The trio had last been reported heading westwards towards Nebraska.

The southern route!  Mr Snow silently cursed the Sky Voices for sending
him in the wrong direction.  No doubt, by the immutable perverseness of
Sod's Law, his proteges would - barring some mishap have arrived at the
settlement within a day or two of his departure!

Never mind.  Carnegie-Hall's story had amply confirmed Mr Snow's belief
that his two young charges and the cloud-warrior were destined to
achieve greatness.

They were indeed The Chosen, recognized and hailed as such not just by
the Kojak, but by the clans they had encountered in crossing the
Central Plains.  Whatever misfortune might befall them, they would
survive and grow ever stronger, for the power of the.  Thrice-Gifted
One was upon them.  An invisible force which, if not an impervious
shield, would preserve and heal their earth bodies and the spirit
within.

Once again Mr Snow regretted that he would not live to see the saviour
of the Plainfolk revealed.  But he now understood why the Sky Voices
had directed him towards the trading post.  It was here the immediate
danger lay, and it was here that his gift of power and his courage
would be sorely tested.

Perhaps to the limit- and beyond...

'What you have said explains a great deal."  Producing a pipe charged
with rainbow grass, Mr Snow lit it, taking a soothing puff before
offering it to his visitor.  'Old Golden Nose is not going to let such
a catastrophic reverse pass unavenged."

Old Golden Nose was a nickname derived from the elaborate black and
gold mask which Domain-Lord Hirohito Yama-Shita wore whenever he
appeared at the trading post.  Depending on their rank, all
Iron-Masters wore masks of one sort or another when dealing with the
Mutes - a practice which had given birth to the generic term
'dead-faces'.

'Lord Yama-Shita is dead,' announced Carnegie-Hall.

The news took Mr Snow's breath away.  'How do you know this?"

'Cadillac told me.  Before escaping from the Eastern Lands, your
clansmen fought a mighty battle with the dead-faces."

Mr Snow listened with a mixture of pride and dismay as the Kojak
wordsmith repeated Cadillac's spellbinding story of death and
destruction at the Heron Pool including, in all its gory detail, the
moment when Clearwater had compelled the domain-lord to kill himself
several times over.

The loss of the wheel-boat with all hands, coming hard on the heels of
the mega-debacle that Carnegie-Hall had just described merely added
insult to injury.  Lord Yama-Shita might be dead - and that removed one
formidable adversary from the field - but his successors would be
honour bound to strike a devastating blow in return.

The first opportunity to do so would be when the wheel-boats ran their
noses aground on the beach by the trading post.  It was going to be a
strange feeling, watching the vessels appear over the dawn horizon and
knowing that this time, as they grew larger and larger and the dread
sound of their engines reached the ears of the waiting Mutes, there
would be no obsequious welcoming ceremony, full of false smiles and
bogus cameraderie.

This time, the rising sun would mark the beginning of a countdown that
would end in an explosive confrontation; an orgy of blood-letting whose
limits could not be foreseen and whose consequences were
incalculable.

After a long moment of reflection Mr Snow said: 'I think I can see how
this is going to play.  The YamaShita won't attack us directly.  To do
so would jeopardize their whole trading operation.  That's why the
D'Troit and C'Natti are here in such large numbers.  The family is
going to use them to put the knife in."

Mr Snow smiled as he took back the pipe and inhaled some more smoke.

'You're probably on the hit-list too.

I'm surprised you came."

Carnegie-Hall bristled.  'You dare to call the Kojak cowards - after
all we have done?!"  'Calm down, Carney.  No one's calling you
anything.

The M'Calls have never backed out of a fight, but if I'd known what we
were walking into, I'd have been severely tempted to stay at home."

'We came because we thought The Chosen would be here!"  exclaimed
Carnegie-Hall.  'We have seen their power!  With them at our side we
have nothing to fear.

The dead-faces are powerless against them!"  Then, with engaging
candour, he added: 'Had I known they weren't going to show, we might
have had second thoughts too.

But where could we go?"

'It's a big country,' replied Mr Snow.  'But if someone's determined to
find you, there's no place you can hide.  If you have to make a stand,
you might as well make it here - amongst your own kind."  He paused and
appraised his visitor.  'The M'Calls can count on their
blood-brothers.

Can the She-Kargo count on the M'Waukee?"

Carnegie-Hall shifted uneasily.  'At this moment I cannot say."

'You trying to tell me you've found a way to get your head off the
block?"

'No!  It's just that ' '- by standing aside, you hope to save your own
skins."

'Never!"  cried Carnegie-Hall.  'The M'Calls may be the paramount clan
of the She-Kargo.  but it is the Kojak who have proved their worth in
battle with the dead-faces!"  'With a little help..."

'How generous of you!"  sneered Carnegie-Hall.  'It takes little
courage to face the enemy when you know you are protected by the mantle
of Talisman!  Your clanfolk emerged unscathed.  Mine paid for their
triumph with their own blood!  How dare you impugn the honour of the
Kojak!  This conversation is at an end!"  Mr Snow laid a restraining
hand on his visitor's knee as he moved to get up.  'Nice try, Carney.

You always were good at the old huff'n puff.  But don't give me this
honour nonsense.  Everyone knows you as a man with his eye on the main
chance.  You've admitted as much yourself.  You were prepared to sell
my people down the river for a boxful of geegaws!"  Carnegie-Hall
dropped the self-righteous anger and adopted the air of a honourable
man who has been sorely wronged.  'That was before Talisman revealed
his purpose to me!  Yes, it is true that when he put his words onto my
tongue my heart was full of treachery, but all that changed when he
filled my mind with his presence!  It is easy for you to look down on
us from your safe haven in the far mountains.  We live on the front
line!  The dead-faces now have men and boats on the far side of the
waters which were once our own!

You seek our help now - what help can we expect from you once you have
journeyed beyond the Black Hills?!"  'Not much, I grant you.  That's
why we have to stand together now.  If there's a fight, we have to win
it.

Do you want to live under the heel of the D'Troit?"

'It is a fate many of the M'Waukee already endure."

'Then now is your chance to get out from under.  We can count on the
San'Paul.  You are the only people who can talk to the San'Louis."

It was obvious that Carnegie-Hall did not relish the prospect of
getting embroiled in a potentially fatal confrontation with the
D'Troit.  'It will not be easy,' he muttered.  'Is there no hope that
The Chosen will get here in time?"

Mr Snow drew down some more smoke.  'Carney, I could make the right
kind of noises in order to string you along but I'm not going to.  The
answer is - I just don't know but from what my gut is telling me, I'd
say the chances are virtually nil.  We're going to have to manufacture
our own miracles.  The only consolation I can offer is the news that
Clearwater, the young lady whose performance has so impressed you, is a
pupil of mine.  She's good - but I'm better."

'The D'Troit have summoners too."

'The D'Troit?!  Don't make me laugh!  Their best man can't even move a
pile of buffalo shit unless he has a shovel!"  Mr Snow waved the threat
away.  'Go back to your lines and talk to your blood-brothers.  Contact
the leader of each delegation and persuade them to come to a meeting
with their paramount warrior plus every available wordsmith and
summoner.  I want them here within two notches for a meeting with their
opposite numbers from the She-Kargo."

A notch was a standard measurement of time marked on candles made from
animal fat and represented one pre-Holocaust hour.  The system had
originated with the Iron Masters.  Having obtained some of these
candles at the trading post, the Mutes had made copies of their own.

In their normal daily lives, Mutes were not clock-watchers; the candles
were only used in situations which were time-critical - such as the
present gathering at the trading post.

'Two notches!  Sweet Mother, that doesn't give us much time."

'We're as short of time as we are of people.  That's why we've gotta
move - fast!"  As they both got to their feet, Carnegie asked: 'What
about the San' Louis."

'Sound them out.  See which way the wind's blowing but don't tell them
about the meeting."

Carnegie-Hall nodded, his eyes full of doubt.  'I hope we're doing the
right thing."

'Trust me,' said Mr Snow.  He gave Carnegie's arm a reassuring
squeeze.

'I too am guided by Talisman.  This is what he.  sent me here for.  To
preserve the freedom of the Plainfolk."

Between dawn and nine o'clock on the following day, the last of the
trade delegations arrived and set up camp in the area allotted to their
own bloodline.  Most of them were new faces belonging to the D'Troit.

Their appearance caused the heavily-outnumbered She-Kargo and M'Waukee
to feel both beleaguered and belligerent and by mid-morning, when all
the wordsmiths had gathered in the bull-ring for the opening round of
their annual talk-lest the atmosphere had become electric.  Everyone
was filled with that oppressive sense of foreboding you get when a
violent storm is about to break.

In order to appreciate what follows it is necessary to-explain that
while most but not all clans possessed wordsmiths, very few of these
gifted individuals were summoners.  Mutes born with two gifts - such as
Mr Snow (wordsmith and summoner) and Cadillac (wordsmith and' seer)
were extremely rare.  And summoners as powerful as Mr Snow and
Clearwater were rarer still.

The same degrees of professional competence applied to wordsmiths, The
M'Calls had enjoyed the benefit of an unbroken line of wordsmiths
stretching back through successive generations to the War of a Thousand
Suns.

This distinction, shared by only a handful of clans, enhanced Mr Snow's
standing but also engendered a great deal of envy.

In many respects, wordsmiths resembled any group of Pre-H
professionals.  Like lawyers, they came in all shapes and sizes and
while they all possessed what was once known as 'the gift of the gab'
their performance as 20th century clients often discovered to their
cost spanned the ratings from the peaks of excellence to the troughs of
incompetence.

Like the plethora of personal computers of the pre-H era that came
fitted with differing amounts of hard-disc storage, some wordsmiths'
memories were better than others.  Compared to the ordinary Mute armed
with the equivalent of 256K RAM, your average wordsmith with a hundred
gigabytes on line was a mental giant - a walking reference library.

However, as with all people-based systems, there was one drawback.

Memory is not a product or function of character: the most able brains
do not necessarily reside inside the heads of charismatic human beings,
or even just plain nice ones.  The greatest data-bank in the world is
not worth a row of beans if there's a dildo manning the front desk.

But when a few zillion gigabytes of memory was allied to an exceedingly
acute mind - as in the case of Mr Snow - the result was an outstanding
personality whose opinions and influence extended far beyond the narrow
confines of their own clan or even their own bloodline.

But while Mr Snow might be regarded as the star of the She-Kargo, there
were other noteworthy contenders among the D'Troit and C'Natti ready to
pit their wits against his.  And they were present on that fateful
morning.

Last year, Mr Snow, by virtue of his age and experience, had been
selected to chair the proceedings; this year, his place had been
awarded to a senior wordsmith from the rival faction - Prime-Cut,
leader of the Clan R'Nato from the bloodline of the D'Troit.

Because of Cadillac's triumphal progress through Illinois, Iowa and
eastern Nebraska - where the trail had run cold - the hottest topic
among the wordsmiths from those areas was the appearance of The Chosen,
the trio from the Clan m'call.  The news of their exploits and their
escape from the Eastern Lands was not confined to the bull-ring.

Exaggerated reports of their prowess passed on by those who had
witnessed their travelling road-show were now spreading like a
bush-fire through the whole encampment.

To the wordsmiths from the various delegations it was both a source of
satisfaction and alarm.  Apart from Carnegie-Hall and Mr Snow, none of
those present were aware of any prophecy which bore a reference to
these individuals and no seer had found their image in the stones.  The
prediction which came closest referred to the return of The Lost Ones
the generations of Mutes who had been taken away by the dead-faces to
the Fire-Pits of Beth-Lem and their off-spring, the Iron-Feet - born
into slavery in the Eastern lands.

Invited to take centre-stage, Carnegie-Hall launched into a colourful
explanation of how he had met Cadillac, Clearwater and Cloud-Warhor
carefully omitting the details of his treacherous deal with Izo
Wantanabe.

Guided by Talisman he had despatched a posse of Kojak warriors through
the winter snows to a rendezvous with the select band of individuals
who were to herald the coming of the Thrice-Gifted One.

A graphic account of their powers - which Clearwater had used to
destroy four arrowheads with one wave of her hand and which, later, had
been employed to rip the belly out of an iron-snake- made a deep
impression on his attentive audience.  When he had finished, he
appealed to Mr Snow.  Had the Sky Voices not told him that Cadillac,
Clearwater and Cloud-Warrior were born in the shadow of Talisman?

Rising to his feet, Mr Snow agreed that this was so.

His affirmation of Carnegie's claim sparked off a heated argument.

Individual wordsmiths from the D'Troit and C'Natti camps leapt to their
feet to protest.

Out of all the Plainfolk why should three warriors from the Clan M'Call
have been chosen to herald the coming of Talisman?  It was just another
ploy by the She-Kargo and their lackeys amongst the M'Waukee to further
inflate their already exaggerated importance.

No wordsmith, claimed the protesters, had ever spoken of The Chosen in
this bull-ring until Carnegie-Hall had coined the phrase.  It was all a
put-up job; something concocted on the flimsiest of evidence by the
Kojak and the M'Calls.  At best it was a well-intentioned misreading of
the events in question; at worst, a total fabrication.

Carnegie-Hall vigorously defended himself but the carefully
orchestrated outburst had achieved its aim, splitting the gathering
into three camps: the pro-SheKargo faction who supported the
proposition, the proD'Troit faction who rejected it, and the
uncommitted who were waiting to see who was going to get the better of
the argument.

Mean-Machine, a C'Natti wordsmith, made his voice heard amid the hubbub
and threw down a challenge.

If Carnegie-Hall and those who supported him were speaking the truth
where was this mysterious trio?  Why had the Clan M'Call not brought
them to the trading post where they could display their powers and
spread their message to the assembled representatives of the
Plainfolk?

Good point, thought Mr Snow.  He cursed himself for not having a ready
answer.

Carnegie-Hall leapt up angrily and confronted Mean-Machine, his
menacing bulk towering over his smaller opponent.  'Do you dare to call
me a liar?!"  Prime-Cut - an equally imposing figure - rose and stepped
off the low mound which the chairman traditionally occupied.  'No!"  he
cried.  Pushing Carnegie-Hall and Mean-Machine apart, he aimed an arm
between them, an accusing finger pointed at Mr Snow.  'There sits the
man who has lied to us all!"  His words drew a shocked gasp from the
uncommitted and an angry roar from the She-Kargo wordsmiths.  Half of
them got to their feet, exchanging accusations and abuse with their
more aggressive counterparts on the other side of the ring.

Prime-Cut spread his arms in a commanding gesture.

'Cease this noise!"  he thundered.  'Sit down and parley in the proper
manner or leave this place!"  The uproar subsided as the more
vociferous protestors and counter-protestors resumed their seats but
the murmuring continued, becoming a sullen underswell of sound.

As Mean-Machine and Carnegie-Hall settled into their places, Mr Snow
got to his feet and appealed to his supporters.  'Let peace descend!

Let your minds be tranquil.

I am the one who stands accused here.  My conscience is clear!  Let the
charges be heard!"  The murmuring gradually subsided under the fierce
gaze of the Plainfolk's two most prestigious wordsmiths.

When silence had been obtained Mr Snow turned to face Prime-Cut in the
centre of the bull-ring.  Attracted by the violence of the argument,
the open space between the inner and outer rings was now crowded with
clan elders and other members of the various delegations.

As the R'Nato wordsmith circled him with a wolfish grin, Mr Snow
muttered: 'I hope you know what you're doing."

'Oh, I do, my friend, I 'do."  Prime-Cut halted by Mr Snow's shoulder
and thrust his mouth close to the Old One's ear.  'You are in deep
shit,' he whispered.  'I'm going to bury you!"  'You're not the first
man to try and do that."  Mr Snow's Voice had a confident ring but he
felt cold and sick inside.

Already outnumbered on the ground, the She-Kargo was in danger of
losing the battle for hearts and minds and he could see no way to
reverse the situation.

Drawing back, Prime-Cut pointed a finger at his victim and addressed
the ring of wordsmiths in a voice loud enough to carry to the expectant
crowd beyond.

'You have heard our brother speak!  His name is renowned, his memory
legend!  Yet even he is bound, as we are, by the wordsmith's oath to
forswear all falsehoods, to faithfully chronicle the deeds of the
Plain-folk and reveal, in their full majesty, the revelations of the
Sky Voices!

'To relay the truth, adorned and embellished by his art but sure and
solid as a rock, clear and pure as a mountain stream' - his voice
hardened - 'not buried beneath shifting sand, or muddied by deceit!

You were witness to his claim that the Sky Voices had told him that
Cadillac, Clearwater and Cloud-Warrior were born in the shadow of
Talisman.  Is that not so?!"  'Aye!  I' chorused the wordsmiths.

'Were those your words?"  demanded Prime-Cut.

Mr Snow sensed the trap but could see no way out.

'They were."

Prime-Cut could hardly contain himself.  'You hear?!"  he thundered.

'He stands condemned out of his own mouth!  The young brave known to
the Kojak as Cloud-Warrior, and who our revered brother' - he indicated
Mr Snow with an elaborate gesture - 'claims as one of the three M'Calls
chosen to lead the Plainfolk towards nationhood is not a Mute at all!'
The charge provoked roars of anger and cries of disbelief.

'"Cloud-Warrior" is a name as false as the colour of his skin!  He is a
sand-burrower from the dark cities - known to his masters as Brickman!'
More shouting.  Prime-Cut demanded silence and faced Mr Snow.  'How do
you answer?!"  Mr Snow eyed his accuser calmly.  'Is that it?"

'No, there is more!"  'Then I'll wait till you've finished."

Prime-Cut appealed to his audience.  'Evasions!  You see how his
serpent tongue wriggles to avoid the truth?!

Well I shall reveal it!  All of you seated here who played host to The
Chosen have been cruelly deceived!  Cadillac, Clearwater and
Cloud-Warrior are agents of the Federation!

And they are not alone!  Mr Snow - who would have us believe he is our
brother - and the entire clan have sold their souls to the
sand-burrowers!"  Once again the meeting erupted with cries of protest
and condemnation.  Charges and counter-charges were hurled back and
forth by the opposing camps and the D'Troit and C'Natti wordsmiths set
up a strident chant: 'OUT-OUT-OUT-OUT!"  The confusion and bitterness
spread amongst the spectators outside the bullring, leading to angry
exchanges and physical violence.  Fortunately there were enough
line-capos on hand to restrain the D'Troit hot-heads who were clearly
out to cause trouble.  Mr Snow had foreseen this and following his
midnight meeting with the leaders of the She-Kargo and M'Waukee
delegations, their clanfolk had been given strict instructions not to
succumb to any provocation from the rival camps.

In the midst of this commotion, Mr Snow stood firm.  Seemingly
oblivious of the jostling mass of bodies crowded around him, he
radiated a deceptive calm like the eye of a hurricane.

Prime-Cut's accusations were highly damaging but Mr Snow could not
allow himself to be drawn into answering specific accusations.  By
remaining silent and allowing the torrent of charges to wash over him,
he hoped to tempt Prime-Cut into revealing all his cards and - with
luck the R'Nato wordsmith might even end up as the accused instead of
the accuser.

But it was hard to resist the cries of 'Answer!  Answer!"  from his own
camp, and it was clear from the anguished expressions on all sides that
many of his friends were in despair at his failure to defend himself.

Prime-Cut ran through a devastating list of questions to which Mr Snow
had no answer.  Had the sand-burrower not descended from the skies?

Did the clan not harbour him in their midst and treat him as one of
their own to the point of even giving him a bedmate?  Did they not
release him?  Had he not returned the following year on a new mission
for his masters?  Had Mr Snow not brought him to the trading post where
he had stolen aboard a wheel-boat to join his two accomplices in
Ne-Issan?

And once there, had they not wreaked bloody havoc at a place called the
Heron Pool - slaughtering the true friends of the Plainfolk?  The Iron
Masters who furnished them with weapons and the necessities of
existence?  But even that was not enough!  These ingrates had murdered
Domain-Lord Yama-Shita, Captain of all the wheel-boats and master of
the Great River!  The visionary who over the past years had sought to
deepen the links and friendship between Mute and Iron Master.

It was a long time since Mr Snow had heard such sycophantic rubbish but
it was clear that Prime-Cut's share of the audience were swallowing it
whole.  And they were cheering him on!

The calumny reached its climax.  The M'Calls had betrayed their
brothers, but that was only to be expected.

Such treachery was in the blood of the She-Kargo.  No longer able to
maintain their superiority by force of arms, they were now seeking to
bolster their position by secret deals with the sand-burrowers!

Again there was uproar, each side trying to howl the other down.  It
was a serious charge and it confirmed Mr Snow's reading of the
situation.  His knowledge of what had happened in Ne-Issan was limited
to what Cadillac had told Carnegie-Hall.  But at Mr Snow's request,
Carnegie-Hall - when addressing the wordsmiths in the bull-ring - had
not mentioned the battle at the Heron Pool or the death of Lord
YamaShita: Prime-Cut could have only gotten this information from the
Iron Masters.  The D'Troit and their allies the C'Natti were acting as
mouthpieces for the YamaShita, but how deep did their involvement go
and how long had they been getting their act together?  Long enough to
put the She-Kargo on the spot.  The degree of coordination between the
D'Troit and She-Kargo and the inflated size of their delegations was
proof of that.  The Iron Masters intended to take their revenge here,
at the trading post.  Tomorrow.  And they were using Prime-Cut to set
the stage with his accusations.

It was time to begin the fight-back.  He had to defend himself, his
clan and the good name of the She-Kargo.

And he had to do so publicly in a way that was effective but did not
provoke an immediate and violent response.

The battle, if there was to be one, had to be on a ground of his own
choosing.

By putting him in the dock and trying to make scapegoats out of the
M'Calls, Prime-Cut seemed to be trying to isolate the clan from the
rest of the Plainfolk.  Having achieved that, it would not be too
difficult- in view of the enormity of their crimes - to persuade the
gathering to hand the M'Call delegation over as a sacrificial offering
to appease the Iron Masters.  But it hadn't worked.  The vociferous
support he had received from the other She-Kargo wordsmiths was proof
that the M'Calls had not been abandoned.  Which was, Mr Snow realized,
just what Prime-Cut intended.  The blow, when struck, would be aimed at
the entire She-Kargo faction.  The hand of the D'Troit would be on the
knife but they would be acting for the dead-faces.  And by this
unparalleled act of treachery they hoped to fulfill their long-held
ambition to become the paramount bloodline.  It was ironic.  The
D'Troit had become the running dogs of the Iron Masters and yet it was
the M'Calls who were accused of betraying the Plainfolk.

But it was not over yet...

The focus of Mr Snow's attention turn outwards as the noise subsided.

Prime-Cut stood in front of him, trembling as he cranked up the
required level of indignation.

'How do you answer?  I' Mr Snow chuckled then raised his voice to
address the assembled wordsmiths.  'How do I answer?"  He turned full
circle, arms out-stretched.  'My brothers under the sun, you have heard
what passes as the truth fall from the lips of the D'Troit.  You have
seen their spokesman circle me like a hungry jackal around an ageing
bull.

Why?  That is the question you must ask yourselves and which I attempt
to answer!

'Why does he choose this moment to accuse me of treachery?  Why does he
attack the honour of the She-Kargo at a time when the Plainfolk have
come together in peace and fellowship?  Are his words as pure and clear
as a mountain stream or do they mask some dark ambition of the D'Troit
which they have yet to reveal?"

'Heyy-yaahhh..."  The She-Kargo and M'Waukee wordsmiths and their
supporters massed beyond the bull-ring voiced a sombre chorus of
approval.

'And you must also ask yourself how he knows these things.  Who else is
aware of the events of which he speaks?"

The question, aimed at those around him, met with no response.

'Reflect on what he has told us.  He speaks of Mutes who are not Mutes,
of secret journeys through the clouds and across the seas to the
Eastern Lands!  Of battles between Mute and Iron Masters in which the
noble lords of Ne-Issan perished in their hundreds!  Of wheel-boats
sunk by red-eyed nightbirds!

'Are these inventions of a fevered mind?  Dreams inspired by envy of
his betters?  If they are not, how does he know - in such detail - what
took place far beyond the Great River, beyond the Running Red Buffalo
Hills?  I He does not speak, like you or I who only a short while ago
listened to our brother Carnegie but as someone with foreknowledge of
these events!  He has never met The Chosen yet he speaks of their great
battle at the Heron Pool and the death of Domain-Lord Yama-Shita as if
he had been there!

'How can he know of such things!  There can only be one answer!  These
words through which he seeks to bring disgrace upon me and the
She-Kargo were put into his mouth by the dead-faces - an alien race
that would make slaves of us all!"  'Heyy-YAHHH!"  This time it was a
full-throated cheer.  And it came from all sides of the ring.

Mr Snow raised his voice.  'Well, they will not make slaves of the
She-Kargo!  The weapons they provide are not given to us.  They are
exchanged for goods we gather through sweat and blood and our most
priceless possession - our Clan-brothers and sisters!  Think back to
when this all began.  Have you forgotten how they killed those who
refused their offerings?!  And yet this man stands before us and says
we must show gratitude?  For what?!  We trade with the dead-faces not
by choice but by necessity!  But there is one thing we will never trade
- our freedom!"  This ringing declaration was greeted by a tumultuous
cheer.

Mr Snow pointed to Prime-Cut.  'He charges me with treachery!  He tries
to tell you that The Chosen are agents of the Federation because they
were born to the bloodline of the She-Kargo!  What will his hatred and
envy lead him to do next?!  Deny the power of Talisman?

'The Chosen do not belong to the Clan M'Call or the She-Kargo or the
D'Troit!  They are of the Plainfolk!  The first of the Lost Ones to
return from the Eastern Lands - as it was prophesied - to herald the
coming of the Thrice-Gifted One!  Under his banner we shall become a
mighty nation!  We shall crush the dark cities and drive the dead-faces
back into the sea 'This should be a time of rejoicing, not anger!  Are
we not all brothers under the sun?"

The ground shook as ten thousand voices chanted their response.

'Heyy-YAHHH!  Heyy-YAHHH!  HEYYYAAHHH!!"  Mr Snow pointed to
Prime-Cut.

'Then beware of those who seek to divide us, for it is they who are the
real enemy!"  The wordsmiths leapt to their feet to avoid being
trampled down by the excited crowd pressing in around them.

Those from the D'Troit camp looked sullen and frustrated but everyone
else, including many of the C'Natti were cheering and raising their
fists in a gesture of solidarity.

Prime-Cut gave it one last try.  'You ask us to believe in The Chosen,
but they are not here!  Are they frightened to appear before us in case
their so-called feats of bravery on behalf of the Plainfolk are
revealed for what they really are - criminal acts sanctioned by the
sand-burrowers who wish to destroy our friendship with those who give
us aid and support?!"  His booming voice cut through the surrounding
noise, bringing a sudden hush.

Mr Snow closed his eyes, raised his face briefly to the sky then said
the first thing that came into his head.  'The Chosen do not fear the
truth!  They are not here because they confront an enemy the warriors
of the D'troit have yet to face!  At this moment, as I speak, they
battle against the iron-snakes of the Federation!"  The bull-ring
erupted with thunderous cheers.  Prime-Cut looked as if he was about to
bust a blood-vessel, but it was all.  over and he knew it.  He stepped
forward, teeth bared, and came nose to nose with Mr Snow.  'You lying
sonofabitch!"  'Easy for you to say,' chuckled Mr Snow.  'But can you
prove it?"

Before Prime-Cut could frame a reply, several of the She-Kargo
wordsmiths hoisted their hero onto their shoulders and carried him in
triumph from the ring.

In the afternoon, with the help of the M'Waukee, who provided them with
a suitable disguise, a group claiming to represent an important number
of C'Natti trade delegations sought an audience with Mr Snow.

Essentially, what they had to say was this: they were greatly concerned
that the actions of certain members of the She-Kargo might jeopardize
the existing trading arrangements (and they left Mr Snow in no doubt as
to who they were referring to) but - and it was an important proviso
they were not prepared to lend their support to 'those elements who
were actively contemplating a joint action with the Iron Master against
certain of the Plain folk'.

Having stated their position, the disguised spokesmen proceeded to ask
questions.  Did the She-Kargo have any plans to resist a surprise
attack by a rival faction?  If so, they were prepared to help in any
way they could.

Once again, they did not name names, but there was no doubt who the
C'Natti spokesmen were referring to.

Their veiled expressions of solidarity could well have been genuine but
Mr Snow could not be sure.  They might have been sent by the D'Troit in
the hope of discovering what, if anything, the She-Kargo had up their
sleeve.

Framing his reply as carefully as he could to avoid spurning what might
be a bonafide offer, Mr Snow said: 'There is no plan.  We have put our
faith in Talisman.  Let those who believe in him stand by us.  The
She-Kargo?will never be the first to draw sharp iron against their
brothers.

'The last thing we wish to do is divide the Plainfolk, especially now
when The Chosen are amongst us.  AH of us must put an end to our
ancient blood-feuds.  We must cleanse our hearts and minds, sweep away
our petty rivalries and rally to Talisman's bright banner.  If you
believe that He is our Saviour, strike down those who insult His Name
by giving aid to our enemies."

'Yes, but when and where do you expect all this to happen?"  enquired
one of the C'Natti wordsmiths.

Mr Snow threw up his hands.  'Who can fathom the workings of poisonous
hearts?  If betrayers revealed their hand treachery would never
flourish as richly as it does today!  It is the assassin who chooses
the place and the hour, not his victim!  Look about you!  Danger
surrounds us!  Go and prepare yourselves!  And be vigilant!'
Nitwits...

Mr Snow spent the remaining daylight hours in head-to-heads with the
leaders of friendly delegations, securing pledges of support and a firm
promise to attend a midnight council of war in the depths of the wood
which was now ringed by sentinels posted by the She-Kargo.  All this
should have left the M'Call delegation in an upbeat mood but their
earlier exuberance had been dampened by the unprecedented number of
clashes between groups of hot-heads from the rival bloodlines.

The use of weapons in these encounters - which by tradition were
strictly forbidden - was a sign that the fragile truce governing these
occasions was under threat.

Despite the efforts of the line-capos and camp-marshals, the ugly
brawls continued throughout the day, causing death and injury to both
sides.

Faced with a steadily deteriorating situation, a high-level meeting
proposed by the M'Waukee and C'Natti brought representatives of the
D'Troit and She-Kargo face to face in the bull-ring.  But this too
failed to ease the tension.  By prior agreement, neither Mr Snow nor
Prime-Cut was there but it was clear that the D'Troit were still angry
that their spokesman had been made to look like a prize asshole and
despite the mutual expressions of respect and willingness to reconcile
their differences by amicable and reasoned debate the meeting broke up
amidst angry recriminations from both sides.

The D'Troit, and to a lesser extent the C'Natti, were

clearly spoiling for a fight.  And they had imported the muscle to
make sure they won it hands down.

The last major conflict in the history of the Plainfolk had been the
Battle of the Black Hills when two entire clans - the M'Calls and the
B'Nardinos from the D'Troit bloodline had fought each other to a finish
in a running encounter that lasted from sunrise to sunset.

Thunderbird, Clearwater's father, had fallen in that battle from which
the M'Calls emerged bloodied but unbowed - a victory which confirmed
their position as paramount clan of the She-Kargo.

But that was fifteen years ago.  There had never been a clash of arms
on that scale before or since and, more important still, there had
never been any occasion where clans of the same, or competing bloodline
had submerged their traditional rivalry to stand shoulder to shoulder
against a common enemy.  Until now.  And having had less than 48 hours
in which to cobble together a temporary alliance and hammer out a
concerted plan of action, no one in the She-Kargo faction was sure how
long it would hold together.

The Mute warrior ethic was similar in many respects to that of the
samurai - the military class that ruled Ne-Issan - but there was one
important difference.  The Mutes were gang-fighters, not battlefield
soldiers.  Their skills, and the supremacy of the knife were derived
from their pre-Holocaust ancestors - the ghetto people who, by some
miracle, had emerged indelibly scarred but alive from the nuclear
blasts that levelled and torched America's great cities.  Desperate,
impoverished individuals whose entire lives had been a struggle for
survival in the urban jungle.  An underclass whose sense of right and
wrong had been warped by deprivation and injustice.

Whose moral nerve endings had been dulled by the callous exploitation
and dog-eat-dog indifference that was the hall-mark of the
pre-Holocaust era.

They had survived then by the quickness of their wits, feet and fists,
a combination of animal cunning and hair-trigger aggression, a
readiness born of desperation to take what they wanted: the very
qualities needed to survive the aftermath of a global nuclear war.

Abstract philosophizing, the art of debate, the intellectual flatulence
of the educated classes, the privileges of the mega-rich secured by
acres of prime real estate and Swiss bank accounts, the well-meaning
advocates of charity, compassion and the fellowship of man were buried
beneath the smouldering ashes.  Literacy went up in smoke as the
unschooled burnt the remaining books to keep warm.

It was not the meek who inherited the earth but the traumatized
remnants of the bread-line poor, the muggers, pushers, the sewer-rats
and hoodlums, along with the Rambo-style, Soldier of Fortune gun-crazy
firepower freaks who had prepared for Armageddon in the backwoods of
America.

Stranded amid the wreckage of the 20th century, like flotsam and jetsam
left high and dry on an alien shore, this residue of humankind had
separated into their different ethnic groups, like snails of different
species placed together in a cage.  At a time when everyone was a
potential predator, the only security was within a group sharing a
common language, customs and racial origin.

During the next nine centuries and through numberless generations, they
had gathered strength and multiplied.

Around countless camp-fires they had recreated the past, mixing fact
and fiction in the same way that jazz musicians improvise on a
well-known melody.  Dimming memories of distant events had given birth
to a new mythology, a new identity; mutated genes had spawned a new,
mishapen but strangely gifted breed of humankind.

And when the grey curtain of clouds that brought the Great Ice-Dark
retreated, revealing the sun and stars in all their glory, the first of
a race of warrior clans emerged - the Southern Mutes and their northern
brothers who later became known as the Plainfolk.

Later, when the delegates to the midnight war council had agreed on a
joint plan of action and returned to their own lines, Mr Snow toured
the M'Call encampment, bringing hope and encouragement to his clanfolk
like Shakespeare's Henry V on the eve of Agincourt.

His last call was upon Blue-Thunder, Rolling-Stone and Boston-Bruin who
sat around one of the many fires with the other leading lights of the
M'Call trade delegation.

As he squatted down and warmed his hands, Rolling-Stone threw some more
wood onto the glowing embers and stared moodily into the leaping
flames.  'So tomorrow's the big day..."

'Yes, when the wheel-boats get here."  Mr Snow's voice was racked and
hoarse from countless hours of argument and persuasion.

Blue-Thunder tested the edge of the blade he was sharpening.  'I don't
understand it.  The D'Troit must know we know what they're up to.  Why
are they waiting?

Why didn't they attack us today?"

'Psychology."

Blue-Thunder frowned at the unfamiliar word.

'They're trying to unnerve us by letting the pressure build up.

Keeping us in suspense.  The way the numbers are stacked up they know
we are not going to attack them.  In theory, they can strike when and
where they please.  But it will be on the beach at dawn tomorrow.

That's what I'm counting on."

'But what makes you so sure?"  insisted Blue-Thunder.

'Because it's the dead-faces from the YamaShita family who want to get
even.  They'll use the D'Troit and maybe the C'Natti to make the
opening play but they'll be in at the kill.  You've seen them at
work.

Chopping people to pieces is what Iron Masters like doing best.

They're not going to come all this way just to watch from the
sidelines."

Doctor-Hook, a M'Call warrior who often acted as a bodyguard to Mr
Snow, approached the fire.  'It is time to leave, Old One."

'Good."  Mr Snow rose to his feet.  The others followed.

After exchanging farewell handclasps with each of them, he said: 'If
any of you have any questions about who's supposed to be doing what
come the dawn now's the time to ask.  We may not see each other
again."

He ran his eyes around the ring of mishapen firelit faces.  No one
spoke.

'Good."  He turned to go.

'There is one thing,' said Blue-Thunder.  'That stuff in the
bull-ring.

Was it true?  Did Cadillac, Clearwater and the cloud-warrior kill
hundreds of dead-faces like Prime-Cut said?"

'They may have done.  According to Carnegie-Hall, Cadillac said they
were involved in a big battle in which many died.  If it's true then
it's something we should be proud of."

'Yes.  But did the sand-burrowers help them win it?"

Mr Snow shrugged.  'Who can say?  Talisman moves in mysterious ways."

He drew his dark-hued cloak around his body with a showman's
flourish.

'Now!  I suggest those of you who form part of the beach party should
try to get a little sleep.  When you wake up you'll find the weather is
to our advantage.  Make the most of it because we won't be able to hold
it in place for long."  He backed away, his hand raised in a last
farewell.  'And for goodness sake, try to look more cheerful!  We're
going to win!"  The M'Call elders and the other members of the
She-Kargo war council who shared their misgivings as the small hours
ticked away might have gained some comfort had they known that the
leaders of the D'Troit faction were also plagued by doubts and
difficulties.

Every D'Troit clan, by the cherished tradition of their bloodline, was
a mean bunch of mothers - which meant, inevitably, that they were
scornful and suspicious of any attempt to moderate their behaviour.

They were governed by only one discipline - violence.  They were
takers, not makers.  They preferred pillage to husbandry.

The hunting and killing of meat on the hoof was an acceptable pastime,
but why grow breadstalks and green-stuffs when the winter larders of
weaker clans could be ransacked at The Gathering?

In a violent world where every male and female of fighting age was
expected to carry sharp iron, the D'Troit were the supreme predators,
feared, hated and despised by all.  In the brief period when peace was
supposed to reign at Du-aruta, they were the chief troublemakers and
much of it was caused when they were caught trying to augment their own
stock of tradeable items by stealing from the baggage trains of other
clans.  They came to the trading post as spoilers, and during the rest
of the year they cruised the ocean of red grass like blood-crazed
killer sharks.

Given their reputation, one might reasonably wonder why they were not
the paramount bloodline.  Perhaps only Talisman knew the answer to
that.  By some quirk of fate, the clans of the D'Troit bloodline were
less fecund than those of the She-Kargo.  In overall terms, they had
remained numerically inferior.  The ratio of gifted Mutes to the rest
of the population was also lower amongst D'Troit clans.  There were
some eminent wordsmiths but very few summoners, most of whom were only
gifted with the first two Rings of Power.

The knowledge that their rivals were more favoured in this respect was
a constant source of envy and resentment.

Talisman's apparent lack of even-handedness had caused the D'Troit to
regard this saviour figure with increasing contempt.  The Plainfolk had
been waiting nine hundred years - how much longer would they have to
wait?  To the D'Troit, this endless waiting had become futile and
pathetic.  It was time for those who could to help themselves.

These festering grievances, the innate capacity for violence and the
basic indiscipline which had caused many of the D'Troit to abandon
their belief in Talisman had also bedevilled the forward planning of
their leaders.

Having primed their warriors for a joint attack on the She-Kargo, the
chieftains and elders had come close to fighting amongst themselves as
they accused each other of failing to control the hotheads under their
personal command.  Why - they asked - in the name of the Great
Sky-Mother could the mad-dogs they led not understand they were only to
attack the She-Kargo when the Iron Masters got there?!

Since they all posed the same question whilst denying that their own
delegation was at fault the discussion, as might be expected, soon
became overheated.

The D'Troit war council, which included representatives from the
C'Natti and San'Louis, had counted on seizing and holding the
initiative from the very beginning, but Mr Snow's robust defence in the
bull-ring had thrown them off balance.  His rallying call for the
Plainfolk to unite and his invocation of Talisman had caused many of
the C'Natti delegations to waver.

Despite the rumours of a mass defection, they would not switch sides.

They were too spineless for that, but they might hold back when the
fighting broke out.  So be it.  When the D'Troit emerged triumphant, as
the paramount bloodline with the sole right to trade with the Iron
Masters, the C'Natti would come crawling like whipped dogs to lick
their feet.

And would be crushed like all the others...

CHAPTER SIX

Mr Snow's prediction about the weather proved chillingly correct.  In
the wake of his departure, the air turned cold and damp.  A mist began
to form.  At first, it lay only ankle deep above the ground but within
two hours it rose, blotting out the night sky.  Sixty minutes later,
when the D'Troit, C'Natti and San'Louis rose to make their final
surreptitious preparations, the huge encampment, the trading post, and
a five mile stretch of the adjacent shoreline was wrapped in a clammy
pale grey blanket.

Every year, the clan delegations made their way down to the shore in
the pre-dawn twilight to await the moment when the wheel-boats appeared
on the horizon, silhouetted against the incandescent disc of the rising
sun.  To the impressionable unsdentific mind of the average Mute the
wheel-boats appeared to issue from the sun itself; an impression that
the Iron Masters had been at pains to reinforce.  This year, the
normally well-ordered migration from the lines to the trading post was
marked by scenes of unparalleled confusion.  The mist was so thick, the
D'Troit and their allies were obliged to set up a line of warriors
standing at arm's length from each other to find their way to the
trading post and the beach below.

When they arrived to take up their alloted positions, they were
surprised to discover that the She-Kargo, M'Waukee and San' Paul had
already staked their claim to the north-western end of the shoreline
and were spread.

out across the entire width of the lower sand-bar from lake to
lagoon.

With visibility reduced to three or four yards, the disposition of the
entire She-Kargo faction could only be guessed at.  Any further
reconnaissance was barred by several, densely-packed lines of
warriors.

This pre-emptive move on the part of the She-Kargo left the leaders of
the D'Troit-C'Natti-San'Louis war council in some disarray.  By denying
access to the part of the lower sandbar they now occupied, the
She-Kargo faction had neatly blocked any outflanking manoeuvre by their
opponents.  Any attempt to force a way through would have immediately
led to a pitched battle in swirling mist, which at times was so thick
you could barely see beyond the end of your knife arm.  The present
poor visibility was not the only limiting factor: by prior agreement,
the attack on the She-Kargo was not supposed to take place before the
Iron Masters arrived on the scene.

In the circumstances, the D'Troit and their allies had no choice but to
position themselves along the remaining section of the beach, between
their rivals and the tall, ornately carved trading post.  And wait.

The original plan had called for the She-Kargo faction to be sandwiched
in between the C'Natti and D'Troit.

A twin pincer movement on the landward side - easily achieved by their
numerically superior forces - would have left the She-Kargo and
M'Waukee surrounded with their backs against the sea and with no
possibility of escape.  At the same moment, a secondary action was to
have been launched by the San'Louis against the camping grounds
occupied by the She-Kargo, M'Waukee and San'Paul.  With the majority of
the delegations crowded onto the shore to await the arrival of the Iron
Masters, the lines would only be thinly defended.

But this part of the plan had also misfired.  As the D'Troit war
council hastily rejigged their general plan of attack a breathless
messenger despatched by the San'Louis arrived from the lines.  In the
mist-shrouded pre-dawn twilight the cooking fires of the She-Kargo
faction had been seen burning with shadowy figures seated or sleeping
beside them.  At the boundary between the M'Waukee lines and the
San'Louis and the C'Natti and San'Paul, everything had seemed perfectly
normal.  It was only some time after the last of the warriors slipped
away to join their companions on the sand-bar that the ruse was
uncovered.

The lines occupied by the She-Kargo faction were empty.  The seated
figures were made of hooded cloaks hung on a framework of sticks, the
sleepers were rolled straw mats stuffed with grass.  Everything of
value, all the trade goods and chattels brought by the She-Kargo,
M'Waukee and San'Paul delegations had been quietly carried away by
baggage-handlers during the night.  But they had not vanished without
trace.  An examination of the ground revealed tracks leading away from
the campsite towards the western shore of the lagoon.

Even though they were doomed to fail, the She-Kargo's efforts to avoid
defeat were impressive.  Prime-Cut unrolled the map given to him by one
of the Iron Masters' agents on Lake Mi-Shiga and after a few minutes'
intensive study the enemy's intentions became abundantly clear.  If
forced to give ground, the main force of the She-Kargo would retreat
across the shallow channel onto the upper sand-bar in an attempt to
seek refuge on the higher ground beyond.  The steep bluffs would form a
good line of defence against a frontal assault but it could be quickly
turned from the west.

Prime-Cut also discerned the tactic underlying the midnight retreat of
the baggage trains along the western side of the lagoon.  The She-Kargo
faction were obviously reluctant to abandon their valuable merchandise
but, more importantly, they intended to put a considerable body of men
across the first fording point on the river estuary and hold the
northern shore to prevent a pursuing force from crossing over and
blocking the exit from the upper sandbar.

Further examination of the map revealed a second fording point across
the estuary, some three miles further west.  This would provide an
alternative route if the first was denied to them.  There was also
another point from which an attack could be launched: a spur of land on
the western shore of the lagoon came to within four hundred paces of
the channel separating the upper and lower sandbar.  If bowmen were
stationed on the point of the spur they could fire into the left flank
of the retreating colunm while the advancing D'Troit cut their way
through from the rear.

At the urging of Prime-Cut and Judas-Priest the war council quickly
agreed to split its forces.  The D'Troit delegations would remain on
the beach ready to move along the sandbar against the main force of
She-Kargo and M'Waukee warriors.  The C'Natti would despatch a strong
force of bowmen onto the spur; the remainder of its warriors would
follow the route taken by the fleeing baggage trains and its escort
believed to be the weakling San'Paul stiffened by elements from the two
stronger bloodlines.  The C'Natti warriors were to destroy everything
in their path, seize the first fording point then wheel right onto the
upper sandbar, trapping what was left of the She-Kargo and M'Waukee.

Result - total annihilation.

Prime-Cut rubbed his hands jubilantly as the runners departed with the
movement orders - orders that were to be put into effect immediately.

Easier said than done.  As the She-Kargo faction had already
discovered, organizing the movement of thousands of combatants and
their assembly into coherent formations is extremely difficult without
a proper chain of command - especially when the orders are conveyed
down the line by word of mouth.  And it was an even bigger problem for
the D'Troit faction because they had three times as many warriors to
deal with.

All of which meant that the orders to the C'Natti to leave the beach
and move off along the western side of the lagoon took some while to
get through to the various delegations.  The cloying mist slowed the
process even further and the planned manoeuvre almost fell apart when
several groups of warriors, anxious to get into the fray, rushed
offmostly in the wrong direction - without waiting to hear what exactly
it was they were required to do.

Prime-Cut cursed and fretted at the delay and silently berated himself
for making what he now realized was a serious tactical blunder.  The
enlarged D'Troit and C'Natti delegations had appeared at the trading
post too soon.  Instead of arriving over the two previous days, the
extra delegates and 'journey-men' should have delayed their appearance
- joining their clansmen in the hours just before dawn.

Had they done that, the She-Kargo faction would, as always, have
outnumbered the D'Troit.  His verbal attack on Mr Snow might have
caused them some disquiet but they would not have felt threatened.

Secure in their strength, they would have gone to bed, slept soundly
and woken up to find themselves hopelessly outnumbered, with no time to
make a coordinated plan to defend themselves.

On the other hand...

Prime-Cut angrily drove these last-minute regrets from his mind.  What
was done was done.  The battle would be harder but that would only make
the winning of it more worthwhile.  Death, if it was to have any
meaning, should be a memorable occasion.

As dawn broke the situation changed rapidly.  The warming rays of the
rising sun burnt away the blanket of mist revealing the disposition of
the opposing forces along the shore.  And as the sun lifted clear of
the eastern horizon, the wheel-boats of the Iron Masters came into
view.  But this time, the flotilla consisted of five vessels instead of
the usual three.

Mr Snow and the other wordsmiths heading the She-Kargo faction did not
know that the two extra wheel-boats had been leased by the Ko-Nikka and
Se-Iko families.  To them, the approaching vessels meant only one
thing; the Yama-Shita had come back in strength and that spelled
trouble.

Steaming in V-formation, with smoke belching from their twin funnels,
the five wheel-boats headed towards the trading post, their
stern-mounted paddles churning the blue sun-struck water into wide
swirling ribbons of green and white .foam.  The relentless
thump-thump-thump of their engines, the boom-pound-boom of the
revolving blades plunging into the water which then cascaded noisily
and by the ton off the rising blades, merged into one endless barrage
of sound, a continuous roll of thunder that reached out across the vast
expanse of the lake, striking terror in the hearts of those who stood
watching and waiting on the shore.

Sky and earth-thunder were sounds which triggered a primal fear within
a Mute's soul.  Within the folk-memory of their race, passed down
through the generations like their warped genetic code, it recalled the
terror inspired by the unbearable brilliance of The War of a Thousand
Suns when the earth and sky was riven by fire.

Oshio Shinoda, supreme commander of the punitive expedition despatched
by the Yama-Shita family, stood on the bridge of the leading vessel
next to its captain, Kato Yukinagi.  Both men had polished brass
telescopes trained on the approaching shore.

On their rear starboard quarter was the boat crewed by the Ko-Nikka.

The Se-Iko boat lay to port.  These, in turn, were flanked by the two
other boats belonging to the Yama-Shita.  Their commanders also had
telescopes trained on the crowded shore, and outside the wheelhouse of
each ship stood a flag-officer and his men, ready to relay messages to
and from the expedition's commander.

On its last visit to the trading post, Yukinagi's vessel - its huge
black superstructure relieved with red and gold trim - had carried
Domain-Lord Hirohito and Clearwater to their secret meeting with Mr
Snow.  This time, the elegantly appointed stateroom occupied by the
late lamented domain-lord had been left empty, a shrine to his memory,
with flowers and various other prayer offerings placed before the dais
on which he sat when giving audience.  And it would remain so until his
death had been well and truly avenged.

With the aid of his powerful spyglass, Samurai-General Shinoda was just
able to identify the different bloodlines.

The She-Kargo, and M'Waukee were grouped together on the right hand
side of the beach.  The D'Troit and San'Louis were ranged in the
centre and to his left.

Normally, the Mutes gathered in one huge throng in front of the trading
post, but now, the centre of gravity had shifted noticeably to the
right, with the She-Kargo and M'Waukee spread out quite thinly along
the lower sandbar.

This was not what Shinoda had expected to find.  The plan had been for
the She-Kargo to be separated from the M'Waukee and sandwiched between
the C'Natti and D'Troit.  But there was no sign of the C'Natti, or for
that matter, the San'Paul.  Something must have happened to cause the
original plan to go awry.  Something drastic like the She-Kargo
discovering what lay in store for them.

If that was so, then the vital element of surprise had been lost.

Samurai-General Shinoda consulted the map spread out on the navigator's
table and conferred with the wheel-boat's captain, Kato Yukinagi.  The
channel separating the upper and lower sand-bars was now a shallow
fording point.  It would slow down any force retreating towards the
northern shore but it would not prevent them from doing so.  Using the
powerful spyglasg mounted on a gleaming brass pillar outside the
wheel-house, he slowly scanned the long upper sand-bar that ran away to
starboard.  It was completely deserted, but when he focused on the
escarpment that dominated the northern shore he glimpsed figures moving
about on top.  Figures that seemed to be trying to conceal their
presence.

After Captain Yukinagi had taken a look through the spyglass and
confirmed his suspicions, Shinoda made a careful survey of the
escarpment and spotted several lines of men - they could only be Mutes
- hauling baggage up the steep slope west of the sand-bar.  Their
distance from his ship made it impossible to tell which group they
belonged to but they had no reason to be there.  If they had come to
trade, they should be on the beach.  On the other hand, if they
intended to join those already on top and cover the retreat of the
She-Kargo they were heading in the right direction.

Shinoda was only guessing at their intentions.  The distant figures
might be the missing C'Natti moving to cut off the She-Kargo but in
that case why were they humping back packs?  He could not afford to
take any chances.  After the sinking of the wheel-boat on Lake
Mi-shiga, everyone in the expedition knew that further failure would
not be tolerated.  As a precautionary measure he decided to land some
of his men onto the upper sandbar to seal off this possible escape
route.  He conferred briefly with Captain Yukinagi, the Flag Officer
was summoned, and the appropriate signal was sent to the starboard
flank-boat.

On the shore, Rolling-Stone, Mack-Truck and Blue-Thunder saw the
wheel-boat detach itself from the flotilla and angle away to their
left.  They didn't need to be master-tacticians to understand the
reason for the move.

It was as obvious as it was unexpected.

The plan hatched by Mr Snow and the war council called for the
She-Kargo faction to give ground as soon as the D'Troit began to stoke
up the present atmosphere to the point where the two sides came to
blows.  But while exchanging the usual swaggering taunts with the
warriors on the She-Kargo right flank, the D'Troit front-liners had
kept the situation below boiling point.  The She-Kargo had to begin
their withdrawal before the wheel-boat got into position but was denied
the reason for doing so!

The D'Troit, having come to a similar conclusion as to the Iron
Master's strategy, had quickly issued instructions to their warriors to
cool it, thereby forcing the She-Kargo into making the first move.

The leading delegates of the She-Kargo faction who formed the top
echelon of the hastily-formed chain of command on the sand-bar put
their heads together.

'Treacherous toads!"  exclaimed Rolling-Stone.  'Yesterday they tried
to blame us for everything, and now they're trying to force us into a
position where we have to attack them!"  'We don't have to pick a
fight,' said Wind-Walker, a M'Waukee wordsmith from the Clan T'Maso.

'We could just withdraw."

Black-Sabbath, paramount warrior of one of the biggest of the She-Kargo
clans reacted angrily.  'The Clan K'Rella has never backed away from
any of these jackals from the D'Troit and is not about to do so now!'
Several other members of the war council expressed the same view with
equal force.

'We're not running away from a fight!"  exclaimed Wind-Walker.  'We're
running into one!  Do you think the D'Troit are just going to stand
there and watch us fade away?  They'll be right on our heels with the
sharp iron out!"  Mack-Truck said: 'If we're going to move, we'd better
do it now."  He pointed to the huge straggling pack of C'Natti warriors
heading around the western side of the lagoon.  'We have to get to the
north shore before they cross the river.  Otherwise we're done for."

'We'll also be done for if we don't get across the channel onto the
upper sandbar before that wheel-boat reaches us,' grunted
Rolling-Stone.

They all looked at the boat.  Dark-Star, a M'Waukee summoner who had
been given the task of aiding the 'strategic withdrawal' asked the
question that was in everyone's minds: 'Can we outrun it?"

'Not if we stand here arguing,' said Rolling-Stone.  'I propose we
move.  En masse.  Now.  All those in favour?"

The motion was carried by eleven to four.

Rolling-Stone turned to Dark-Star.  'Besides yourself, how many
summoners do we have who can raise stones?"

'I know of at least thirty.  There could be more."

'Good.  Pick nine of the best and spread yourselves out so as we've got
the full width of the sand-bar covered.

Position yourselves two hundred paces behind the front rank.  The
signal to withdraw will be three blasts on the buffalo horns - repeated
twice.  When you hear that, the front line will fall back towards you,
and as they reach you ' 'We hit the beach..."

'With everything you've got.  Raise a wall of shit that will slow them
down and give us a head start."  Rolling-Stone patted Dark-Star on the
shoulder.  'Take a group of your own clansmen to guard you and as soon
as you've got lift-off, pull back but keep the magic flowing for as
long as you can.  Our second line will cover you."

Dark-Star eyed the old mute sceptically.  'What with?"

Rolling-Stone gave him a comradely slap on the back.

'Have faith, brother.  Talisman looks after his own."

Yeahhh.  Tell me something new...

When Rolling-Stone called for the bull-horus to be sounded, the
diverted wheel-boat was about four miles from the mouth of the channel
between the sandbars.

The eerie sound drifted across the water to reach the ear of
Samurai-Major Akido Mitsunari and Captain Umigami.  Mitsunari was the
commander of the military force now assembled on the through-deck
below: a combined force of cavalry and infantry, ready to charge down
the gangways as soon as the boat reached the shore.

Umigami was Master of the vessel but when carrying troops he was
obliged by tradition, to follow the orders of their commander.  As in
ancient Japan, the army took precedence over the navy.  Umigami, an
officer in the merchant marine, ranked even lower in the pecking
order.

Mitsunari swept his powerful spyglass over the thousands of Mutes that
seemed to be milling about aimlessly along the lower sand-bar.

Although vastly outnumbered, his tiny force would make mince-meat of
them.  No discipline!

he lamented inwardly.  No organization!

As this judgement passed through his mind, the lines of She-Kargo
warriors positioned nearest to the D'Troit wilted then fell back
rapidly, opening up a wide gap between the opposing factions.  The open
stretch of beach erupted with explosive force and an instant later
Mitsunari became aware of a high keening sound.

Through his spyglass he saw sand, stones, grass and gravel being sucked
up into moving funnels of air which then snaked forward at great speed
into the leading ranks of the She-Kargo.  Dust devils!  A stream of
mini-tornadoes that scythed through the advancing troops, knocking men
off their feet with a vicious hail of rocks and stones and momentarily
blinding others with whirling clouds of sand.

It was amazing.  Mitsunari had never seen anything like it before.  And
during the two or three minutes this barrage lasted, the entire
She-Kargo army had turned tail and was running towards the channel that
separated the two sandbars.

The next sound Mitsunari heard was an angry roar from seventy thousand
throats as the massed delegations of the D'Troit launched themselves in
pursuit.

Like his commander, Oshio Shinoda, Mitsunari would have dearly loved to
know the battle plan of the D'Troit.

The chain of agents stationed in the outlands who had acted on behalf
of the Yama-Shita family in setting up this 'arrangement' had tried to
persuade the D'Troit to accept the help of a small team of advisors
including a flag signal unit which could have maintained contact with
the advancing flotilla.

The idiot monkey-faced chieftains who led the D'Troit had spurned this
offer, giving as an excuse the difficulty of concealing IronMasters
among their own ranks.  The discovery of such individuals by their
rivals would, they claimed, have brought an immediate charge of
collaborating with the enemy - a charge the D'Troit intended to make
against the She-Kargo.

As a result, Oshio Shinoda, his junior force commanders and the
boat-captains had no way of knowing the on-shore situation beyond what
they could see through their telescopes.  And under the strict policy
of non-belligerence imposed by the Toh-Yota shogunate - to which they
were obliged to adhere because of the unwelcome presence of the
wheel-boats crewed by the Ko-Nikka and Se-Iko - they could not lawfully
intervene until they had run the boats ashore and had received a formal
request for assistance!

Responding to Mitsunari's request for more speed, the wheel-boat
captain sent the traditional signal to the sweating stokers in the
engine room.  Off his rear port quarter, smoke belched from the funnels
of the rest of the flotilla as they responded to a similar order from
Oshio Shinoda.

On shore, having recovered from their surprise, the massed clan
delegations of the D'Troit raced after the She-Kargo like a howling
lynch-mob.  Moving with them were their own summoners, but they could
not reply in a similar manner.  In order to do so, they would have had
to place themselves of were their own warriors - exposing themselves to
a well-aimed crossbow bolt.  A summoner could only call up the forces
from the earth and sky when he was standing still.  The very act rooted
him to the spot until the forces had passed through him.  That was the
second drawback to being a summoner.

The deadly hail of stones raised by Dark-Star's team had cut down
hundreds of warriors.  The D'Troit were not prepared to wait for a
similar cloud to smite the fleeing She-Kargo.  Some of the pebbles on
the beach were bigger than a man's fist but a direct hit could not be
guaranteed.  Knives, on the other hand, always found their target.

The She-Kargo faction had been ordered to cover the three miles to the
channel at the fastest possible speed.

Those who tripped and fell, or lagged behind for whatever reason were
to be left to their own devices.  They could either try to catch up or
make a stand in the few seconds that remained before they were engulfed
by the screaming horde now racing towards them.  A brave but futile
gesture which failed to slow the pace of the pursuit.

The leading ranks of the D'Troit simply ran around the stragglers,
leaving them to be hacked to pieces by the tens of thousands of
warriors packed into the middle and rear of the column.

The time taken to cover the first three miles was a little under
eighteen minutes - well outside the world record for that distance, but
this race was run over an uneven bed of sand and shingle, not a rolled
Olympic-class cinder track.  Even so, the leaders were still travelling
at over ten miles an hour, equal to the speed of Mitsunari's
wheel-boat.

Fortunately, the wheel-boat had further to go and it was still out of
range when the front of the column reached the three hundred yard wide
channel and pounded across in a cloud of spray.

Mitsunari realized that there was no chance of placing his wheel-boat
in the channel - thereby cutting off the She-Kargo's line of retreat.

And having seen the violent sandstorms raised against the D'Troit, he
was reluctant to get too close for fear of losing the vessel.  The
stories of Mute magic had been discounted, but he had now seen evidence
of it with his own eyes!  Already one wheel-boat with a noted commander
and carrying many of his own comrades had gone down in Lake Mi-shiga.

He did not propose to be on board the second.

Mitsunari did not fear death, but as a samurai his whole life had been
geared to one end: to die in the heat of battle on behalf of his
domain-lord.  Drowning - even in the line of duty - was a quite ignoble
way of departing from this life.  He asked Captain Umigami to alter the
ship's heading fifteen degrees to starboard.  The bow of the wheel-boat
was now aimed at the long upper sand-bar, but the approach angle was
much shallower, allowing the cannon mounted in the port side galleries
to brought to bear against the retreating column.

M'Call elder Rolling-Stone had seen the wheel-boats discharge their
cannon in a ceremonial salute but he had never seen them fire in
anger.

Others, in the early days before the Mute clans agreed to trade with
the Iron Masters, had been given a practical demonstration.  Being in
the target area of a broadside from one of these vessels had proved an
unforgettable learning experience and the news had been passed on.

But this was not the only new threat.  To the She-Kargo's rear, the
deadly pursuit had not slackened and now, as the middle and rear
segments of their straggling formation headed towards the channel, they
came under fire from the first of the D'Troit bowmen to reach the spur
of land jutting out from the western side of the lagoon.  Volley after
volley of crossbow bolts flew across the four hundred yard stretch of
water, cutting down warriors right, left and centre.

Rolling-Stone and Mack-Truck urged the last of their clansmen into the
channel then turned to greet Dark-Star D'Mingo.  His escort - two giant
M'Waukee warriors had hoisted him up by his armpits, leaving his
flailing legs barely touching the ground.

They set him down in front of Rolling-Stone.  He crumpled like an empty
sack then straightened up.  'I know, I know, I know.  They weren't
supposed to pick me up.  But don't be angry at them.  They are my
sons."

He quickly embraced them both then turned his eyes skywards.  'Bless
you, Sweet Sky-Mother, for the loan of two strong arms!"  He turned
back to his sons.  'Right!  Off you go!  I've got work to do!"  The two
young warriors paused uncertainly.  Dark-Star shoved them into the
water.  'Go on!  Get moving!"  His sons raised their hands in a
farewell salute then ran on and were lost in the clouds of spray raised
by the other fleeing warriors.

Dark-Star crouched at the water's edge between Mack-Truck and
Rolling-Stone as hundreds of warriors sprinted past.  Muscled thighs
lifting and driving their flying feet, pounding the water to foam as
they passed across to the other side.  Foam that was already tinted
with the blood of those slain by the bowmen on the nearby spur.

'Are you out of your mind?!"  exclaimed Rolling-Stone.

'Go after them!"  'Pwwahhh!  I've done enough running for one day!"

'So have I,' admitted Mack-Truck.  'There's no way I'm ever going to
make it to the top of that bluff."

Rolling-Stone eyed the distant high ground that overlooked the seven
mile-long sandbar their warriors had to cover before they reached
safety.  The neither..."

'Better make ourselves useful then,' said Dark-Star.

Running back and forth across the curved point of the sand-bar he
recruited two of his earlier colleagues as they stumbled to the water's
edge and ordered Rolling-Stone and Mack-Truck to arm their crossbows
and gather as many bolts as they could from warriors who had fallen to
the incoming fire from the nearby spur.

Working their way through the dune grass on the lagoon side of the
sand-bar, they came opposite the point where the D'Troit bowmen were
massed.  Dark-Star turned to his two colleagues.  'I know it's asking a
lot but I want you to raise some more whirlies as the last of our
people come through.  I'll try and spoil the aim of these toads over
here."  He gripped their hands in the traditional gesture of
farewell.

'Give it everything you've got.  This is as far as we go."

The two summoners accepted their imminent death with the calm
resignation that all Mute warriors strove to achieve and hid themselves
in wind-scooped hollows between the spiked tufts of grass.

'And what do we do?"  enquired Mack-Truck.

'Do your best to cover us.  The longer we can keep going, the more
chance our brothers will have of getting out of this alive."  Dark-Star
glanced over his shoulder at the wheel-boat in the lake beyond as it
crossed the mouth of the channel, almost sideways on to their
position.

'See how those yellow runts are trying to cut us off?  They're working
hand-in-glove with the D'Troit!"  He ground his teeth together.  'Oh,
Talisman!  When the guilty are judged, make them pay in blood!'
Breaking away from Rolling-Stone and Mack-Truck, Dark-Star waded into
the water seemingly oblivious of the incoming volleys of crossbow
bolts.  He concentrated for a moment as if gathering his inner
strength, then threw his head back and spread his arms out sideways
with the palms facing downwards.  A shrill piercing cry burst from his
lips and in the same instant, a small whirlpool formed in the water
directly below each of his outstretched hands.

Flexing his arms, Dark-Star pushed the whirlpools out of reach then, as
they grew in size and increased their speed of rotation, he swept his
arms upwards.

Responding to his unspoken command, the whirlpools became two huge
spinning columns of water that rose into the air - and kept on rising
until they were about a hundred feet high.  The noise was deafening
like the buffeting roar of gale-force winds tearing through the
treetops.

By now, Dark-Star's hands were high over his head.

He swept them forwards, the two index fingers aimed across the lagoon
at the warriors massed on the opposing shore.  The tall, snaking
columns of water surged forward like unleashed hunting dogs.  Behind
them, Dark-Star raised another pair, then another.

Before they had time to grasp what was happening, the C'Natti bowmen on
the point of the spur found their view of the sand-bar obscured by
twelve huge undulating columns of water, each one now twenty to thirty
feet in diameter and bearing down on them with the speed and menace of
an approaching express train.

The wind circling each column whipped their faces and tore at their
clothing then, as the first waterspouts reached the shore, the huge
columns of water collapsed with a thunderclap of sound.

Those immediately below were knocked senseless to the ground, others on
the shoreline were swept into the lagoon.  More spouts followed in
their wake, swamping the spur from all sides.  To many of the terrified
Mutes it was as if the heavens had opened and the Sky Voices were
venting their wrath upon the C'Natti for challenging the will of
Talisman.  Hundreds turned tail and fled inland.

The hardier souls stood their ground but the torrential cascades of
water falling out of the sky and the continuous advance of newly-formed
waterspouts masked their view of the retreating She-Kargo.

Running in their clan groups, spread out across the whole width of the
sand-bar, the forty-five thousand warriors of the She-Kargo faction or
to be more accurate those still up and running- took about ten minutes
to pass the point where Rolling-Stone, Mack-Truck, Dark-Star and the
other two summoners were making their last stand.  The D'Troit had been
tearing savagely into the tail end of the column and despite the order
to keep running, many of those in the rear had decided to stand and
fight rather than face the ignominy of being cut down from behind.

As a consequence of these desperate struggles, a slight gap - no more
than thirty yards at best - had opened up between the She-Kargo and
their pursuers.  It was this approaching gap that Dark-Star's
colleagues - Silent-Running and Condition-Red- proceeded to exploit,
each raising a power vortex that sucked stones and sand into the air
then hurled them at murderous speed towards the advancing D'Troit.

Once again the front ranks wilted and fell back under the onslaught,
but as before it only caused a temporary delay.  Those behind continued
to leap over the prostrate bodies of their comrades, some falling in
their turn, others circling round the lake-side of the sand-bar, under
cover of the central ridge.

The power given to summoners did not pour endlessly like water from a
tap.  It came in finite bursts, and like a battery that needed to be
recharged after use, it quickly ran out if constant calls were made
upon it.  That was the third drawback to being a summoner.

The howling sandstorms .faltered then died.  Sand and stones rained
vertically out of the sky and seconds later the water around Dark-Star
became ominously still.

Totally exhausted, he staggered in the waist-deep water then pitched
forward, face down.  Two crossbow bolts struck the upper half of his
body as he sank beneath the surface.  Silent-Running and Condition-Red
went down unresisting under a flurry of knife-thrusts.  Rolling-Stone
and Mack-Truck threw aside their empty cross-bows and met death knife
in hand and a cry on their lips.

'Drink, Sweet Mother!"  They had been doomed from the start but their
defiant stand had gained a few vital minutes of respite which allowed
the tail end of the retreating column to get across the channel onto
the upper sand-bar without further losses.

But the chase was far from over.  The She-Kargo and their allies had
another seven miles to run before reaching the safety of the northern
shore, followed by a steep, six-hundred foot climb up the face of the
bluff to where Mr Snow now stood, guarded by a phalanx of M'Call Bears
and ten of the She-Kargo's most powerful summoners.

It was not his life he cared about.  Mr Snow was aware he might not
survive the battle.  The warriors and summoners were there to protect
his magic.

Only he had the potential to redress the balance; to counter the
combined strength of Mute and Iron Master ranged against them.  He had
made a spectacular stand against the The Lady from Louisiana but his
prodigious efforts on that occasion were dwarfed by the scale of the
task that now confronted him.  He was not even sure he could deliver
what he had promised the delegates to the midnight war council.

Immense powers lay hidden in the earth and sky, but the gift that
enabled him to summon them was given to him by Talisman - and it was
exercised with his blessing to do his Will.  Would he allow his power
to be used to tear the Plainfolk asunder?  Mr Snow, who had spent
virtually every moment since his arrival trying to plan for every
eventuality finally gave up worrying and turned his red-rimmed eyes to
the sky.

We offer our spirits into your care, Sweet Mother.  Let his Will be
done...

From his present vantage point, Mr Snow had a bird's eye view of the
evolving struggle and he could zoom in close on the action with the aid
of the compact but powerful viewing device found on Brickman after he
had been shot down during the Battle of the Now and Then River.

To the left he could see the long sand-bar with the mass of She-Kargo
and M'Waukee Mutes moving along it from the far end.  He could also see
the wheel-boat closing in on their right flank.  Beyond the channel,
the first waves of the D'Troit were entering the water.

Immediately below him, defending the northern end of the sand-bar and
the steep slope the last of the baggage train and the exhausted runners
had yet to climb were several thousand reinforcements summoned from
nearby She-Kargo and M'Waukee clans.  Arriving in batches all through
the night, some had been running Mute-fashion for twelve hours
non-stop.  These breathless latecomers asked for and were given no
respite.  They acknowledged the shouted greetings and directions of the
battle-marshals with a wave and ran to their allotted positions without
breaking their stride.

Swinging to the right, to the western side of the lagoon, Mr Snow could
see the C'Natti 'army' advancing along the route taken by the She-Kargo
faction's worldly goods.  Having stolen away two hours after midnight,
the baggage train and its escort of San'Paul warriors were now safely
across the narrow point of the river estuary.

Half their number had reached the top of the bluffs, but a long
jostling line of porters trailed back down the path onto the shore
below.

Come on, come on, come on!  Move!  Move.  Move!

It was a nail-biting moment.  The C'Natti were closing the gap at an
alarming speed, but because of the initial confusion surrounding their
departure and the circuitous route they were obliged to follow, the
leading groups were still some way behind-the She-Kargo column on the
upper safid-bar.  Mr Snow prayed they would not succeed in drawing
level.  If his plan was to succeed the She-Kargo faction had to reach
the shore and scale the bluffs before the C'Natti crossed the river
estuary and turned to cut the She-Kargo line of retreat - a danger
Mack-Truck had already foreseen.

O, Talisman, our Saviour on high, give wings to the feet of our
warriors, and give us the power to defeat our enemies.

y this time, the four remaining boats in the flotilla had run the
square-cut bows of their vessels onto the gently shelving beach below
the trading post.  The joint D'Troit and C'Natti war council led by
Prime-Cut, Judas-Priest, Screaming-Tree, Flesh-Eater, Corpse-Grinder
and WarMachine had kept back some ten thousand delegates to provide an
impressive welcoming committee.  Taking their cue from Prime-Cut, all
of them cheered wildly as the masked, richly-dressed samurai came
hurrying ashore in their curious bandy-legged fashion as soon as the
wide gangways had been lowered into place.

Cutting short the usual formalities, Samurai-General Shinoda dispensed
with the services of an interpreter-spokesman and demanded a direct
explanation of what was happening.

His boat-captain, Kato Yukinagi, stood nearby, flanked by the worried
commanders of the Ko-Nikka and Se-Iko vessels.  Neither had expected to
find themselves in the middle of a war-zone.

Prime-Cut had already worked out the crucial elements of his reply with
one of the Yama-Shita's forward agents.

After delivering a brief, highly-coloured and totally biased account of
what had happened the day before, he formally requested the assistance
of the Iron Masters in punishing the treacherous She-Kargo.  Had it not
been for the vigilance of the D'Troit, he declared, these hired lackeys
of the sand-burrowers would have attempted to seize the wheel-boats and
murder their crews!

Hawwwwhh!  The leading samurai from the YamaShita family crowded behind
Shinoda and the wheel-boat captains reacted with a convincing degree of
shock and horror, striding to and fro, and posturing in a warlike
manner to express their outrage.

If the noble Iron Masters were willing to come to the aid of their
loyal friends, cried Judas-Priest, they must do so quickly!

Oshio Shinoda went through the motions of consulting the Se-Iko and
Ko-Nikka captains, but while they were formulating their answer, the
first of the YamaShita's mounted samurai came clattering down the
gangways of their two beached vessels.

As strangers in a strange land, the Se-Iko and Ko-Nikka could do little
else but agree.  They had not come prepared for trouble but having come
this far - at great expense - they did not want to return
empty-handed.

By the time they had conferred and given their reluctant agreement to
the proposed military action, the first two squadrons of samurai
cavalry had already departed at the gallop; the first along the
sand-bar, the second around the western side of the lagoon.  And
seconds after the SeIko and Ko-Nikka had penned their assent to the
bottom of a document that Shinoda had thoughtfully prepared to cover
just an emergency, a volley of green rockets soared skywards from the
roof of his wheel-boat.

This was the signal that Samurai-Major Mitsunari and Captain Umigami on
the bridge of the flank-boat had been waiting for.

B-BA-BBOOOMMMM!!  The port side of Mit-sunari's wheel-boat erupted with
smoke and flame as the thirty lower cannon were fired simultaneously,
hurling a salvo of 20lb iron balls at the retreating Mutes.  Watching
through their spyglasses, Samurai-Major Mitsunari and Captain Umigama
chortled gleefully as the cannonade ripped bloody gaps in the column,
sending bodies and great gouts of sand and smoke flying into the air.

'B-BA-BBOOOMMMM!  I' The guns ranged along the first, upper gallery
fired in their turn.  More hits.  Umigami ordered the helmsman to bring
the vessel closer to shore so that the cannoneers could load grapeshot
and cause even more casualties.  Wounded soldiers ran slower and were
easier to kill.

The noise of the first two salvos bounced off the rocky rampart and
reverberated across the lake towards the trading post.  Noting the
increasing bewilderment of the Se-Iko and Ko-Nikka, Shinoda explained
with studied courtesy that these opening shots had been the signal for
the cavalry to draw their swords in support of the friendly tribes of
grass-monkeys.  A signal which, of course, could not have been given
without their consent.

Inviting the two captains and their chief lieutenants to accompany him,
Shinoda boarded the red and gold vessel which had once carried his
domain-lord and ordered the captain to cruise along the sand-bar so
that he and his guests could survey the carnage.  The ingrained streak
of cruelty that all Iron Masters possessed made the invitation
impossible to resist.

The third Yama-Shita wheel-boat followed, leaving the Se-Iko and
Ko-Nikka vessels beached by the trading post, under the command of
their junior officers.

From the top of the bluff, Mr Snow watched helplessly as repeated
broadsides from the upper and lower decks tore great gaps in the
columns of running warriors.  And on the flank-boat, the sweating,
smoke-blackened gun-crews poured buckets of water over their
muzzleloading cannons to cool the heated barrels.

To aid the retreating She-Kargo and M'Waukee delegations, four lines of
bowmen had been stationed across the sand-bar at regular intervals.  As
the last men passed through the first line, the bowmen fired into the
advancing D'Troit, then fell back.  And as they and the retreating
troops pass through the second line the operation was repeated.

By the time the fourth line had fired their lethal volley, the first
line had taken up a new position as the fifth line, and so it went on,
mile after mile, all the way along the sand-bar.  But the plan had not
taken into account the repeated cannonades from the wheel-boat - and
now Mr Snow could see that two more were steaming in the same
direction!

Fortunately, the firing from the western side of the lagoon had
ceased.

Through Brickman's viewer, he could see the hunting packs of the
C'Natti running flat out in an effort to draw level with the
She-Kargo.

Behind them, gaining fast, were the leading horses of the second
squadron of samurai.  Each rider carried the tall black and silver
house-flag of the YamaShita mounted on a slender pole fixed to the back
of his armoured tunic.  With their horned, wide-brimmed helmets,
snarling iron battle-masks and other warlike accoutrements they were a
fearsome sight.

'B-BA-BBOOOMMMM!!"  The sound of another broadside thundered across the
lake as thirty muzzle-loads of grapeshot scythed down several lines of
running Mutes.  Unable to bear the one-sided slaughter any longer, two
She-Kargo summoners, gifted with the Third Ring of Power, ran into the
shallows and called up huge waterspouts as Dark-Star had done.

Before this moment it had not been practical to do so.  There was a
limit to the power that flowed through the Third Ring.  The towering
columns of water the summoner was able to raise and move in a chosen
direction could not travel very fan half a mile at the most and
somewhat less if the summoner was generating a series of them.  Beyond
a certain point, the dynamic thrust that kept the twisting column up in
the air and moved it forward simply petered out and the whole thing
just collapsed in a cloud of spray.

But now, the wheel-boat had steamed closer to the shore and within
seconds of being summoned into life, four towering waterspouts were
snaking across the lake owards Captain Umigami's vessel and more were
being brought to life behind them.

Seeing what was happening, a large number of warriors broke off from
the retreating column and formed a human rampart around the summoners
to protect them for as long as they could.

Samurai-Major Mitsunari and Captain Umigami stared in horror as the
line of waterspouts came spinning across the lake towards their boat.

The wheel-house perched on top of the third floor gallery was already
some fifty feet above water-level - these huge roaring white snakes
were higher by at least half as much again, maybe more!

A raging wind tore through the portside galleries and buffeted the
wheel-house then the boat shuddered as the first four columns of water
slammed into it.  Water cascaded out of the sky and burst i.nto the
side cabins, flooding through the transverse passageways to empty over
the starboard side.  Again and again the ship was struck.  Interior
partitions were swept away as torrents of water poured down the maze of
stairways onto the through deck and into the holds below.

The basic structure had been built to resist the worst of storms but no
one had envisaged moving walls of water as high as this!  Two more,
top-heavy spouts struck the port side of the wheel-boat just forward of
midships, snapping off both funnels and sweeping them into the sea
beyond.  The next seemed to be aimed directly at the wheel-house.

Before anyone inside had time to react, the hundred foot high column of
water struck the corner of the forward galleries.  Several tons of
water fell out of the sky, flattening the wheel-house and its
occupants.

Samurai-General Shinoda, on the bridge of the following boat, watched
speechlessly as the tumbling mass of water hit the roof of Mitsunari's
vessel and exploded, hurling the splintered wreckage of the wheel-house
and the rag-doll bodies of his comrades into the sea.  Finding his
tongue, he invoked the protection of OmikamiAmaterasu, the supreme
deity.  Like all his compatriots, he had discounted the half-baked
tales of Mute magic, but it was true!  He had seen it with his own
eyes.  These grass-monkeys had summoned a horde of evil kami to their
aid!

And as if to underline the awful truth of this conclusion, the huge
boiler in the bowels of the stricken vessel exploded with a muffled
roar.  For a brief instant of time the damage was contained then, with
a thunderous boom, billowing clouds of smoke and steam burst out
through the roof and the ruptured side galleries.

The cannons fell silent.  And the last waterspouts faltered and died
before reaching the wheel-boat as the two She-Kargo summoners went down
under a dozen flashing knives.  The bodies of their defenders littered
the water's edge, staining it with their blood.

The run continued, the death-toll mounted.  But now, with only three
long-stretching miles between the retreating column and the face of the
bluffs, they entered the last defensive zone where, in the hours
between midnight and dawn, feverish preparations had been made to delay
the pursuit.

Six-foot square lattices of poles, lashed together with sharpened
stakes fixed at right-angles to every join had been scattered along the
bar, sharp end down.  As the column passed by, the frames were turned
over by the tail-enders to expose the lethal points and tossed into the
path of the oncoming D'Troit.

Their size made them too risky to leap over.  The fleet-footed dodged
around while other more public-spirited individuals attempted to
diminish the risk even further by overturning them.  But the immense
pressure exerted by the middle and rear ranks caused the column to
steamroller over anyone who stopped at the front.

Those who stumbled and fell usually brought a tangle of bodies down on
top of them.  If they were lucky, those behind ran past or leapt over
them, but if there were too many choke points, they were simply
trampled into the ground.

Some distance behind the spiked mats were a collection of twenty-foot
long barriers made out of a simple framework of poles to which more
sharpened stakes had been lashed at an angle facing the enemy like the
steel girders in pre-Holocaust tank traps.  These too were swung across
the sand-bar by the last men to pass.

Compared to the number killed and injured by the wheel-boat's cannon,
the casualties suffered by the D'Troit through these hastily-prepared
devices were pitifully few.  There had not been enough time to prepare
and position enough of them, but with the lines of bowmen still firing
then falling back, it was enough to break the momentum.

The sand-bar was five-hundred yards wide - enormously wide if you have
to defend it, but exceedingly narrow when you have sixty thousand
screaming warriors from groups who don't particularly like each other,
all chasing the same quarry - and all trying to elbow their way into
the front line.  Added to which there were now dozens of dead-faces
mounted on strange four-legged beasts demanding passage through their
ranks from the rear!

When Aishi Sakimoto, the acting regent of the YamaShita had resurrected
Domain-Lord Hirohito's plan, he had never considered the possibility
that the D'Troit might regard the Iron Master's assistance as an
interference.

But from the angry reactions of the grass-monkeys now surrounding them
it was clear to the officer in charge of the first cavalry squadron
that they bitterly resented being forced to stand aside.  It was their
brothers who had fallen.  What right did the dead-faces have to push to
the front and take all the glory?!

The resulting melee in which Iron Master and Mute ended up brandishing
their weapons at each other brought the rear third of the D'Troit
column to a standstill.

What began as a spontaneous reaction became a deliberate ploy to hold
back the Iron Masters so that their clansmen could finish the job they
had started, but it gave the She-Kargo and their allies an unexpected
respite.

The possibility of Iron Masters giving chase on horseback had been
foreseen by Carnegie-Hall.  The ultimate line of defence consisted of
five staggered rows of forward-sloping stakes running across the
sandbar from lake to lagoon.  They were spaced wide enough apart to
allow a warrior to slip through, but any horseman attempting to ride
through it would immediately find himself in difficulty.  The pointed
stakes were too close together and too high, and because they were
staggered in depth, they could not be cleared in a single jump.

The job of gathering, sharpening and planting the stakes, begun as soon
as darkness fell, had continued after dawn and was still being
completed as the She-Kargo began to pass through.

The lines of bowmen now formed into two groups, one on either shore to
protect the rear of the column, but stocks of the precious crossbow
bolts were now dangerously low.  When a bowman emptied his pouch, he
joined the retreat.

The pursuing D'Troit thought it was a rout, but they were wrong.  It
was a strategic withdrawal.  And.that was not a play on words to hide a
bitter truth.  Every man and woman in the She-Kargo faction would have
preferred to stand and fight regardless of the odds.  To face an enemy
who outnumbered you by 3 to 1, knowing that you were bound to die
demanded a very special kind of bravery for which the She-Kargo were
renowned.  But Mr Snow's stern message had been passed to the leaders
of all the threatened delegations.  Talisman had spoken through him.

The D'Troit, the C'Natti and San'Louis had to be punished for their
renunciation of the Thrice-Gifted One and their betrayal of the
Plainfolk.  And the dead-faces who had inspired their treachery had to
be taught a lesson they would never forget.

That was why the She-Kargo faction had to endure this costly and
ignominious withdrawal- to draw their enemies onto the killing
ground.

And the time was nigh...

Mr Snow surveyed the scene below him once more.

The leading ranks of the retreating column were now splashing across
the silted-up bed of a narrow access channel cut through the sandbar
close to the northern shore.  Soon they would begin to pass through the
line of defenders at the base of the bluff.

To his right, the last of the baggage train were toiling up the slopes
under the weight of their loads.  Their pursuers, the C'Natti, in their
tens of thousands, were on the far side of the river estuary, preparing
to cross the narrows.

Further back still, samurai horsemen moving over open ground between
the lines of Mutes were catching up with the leading warriors.

Mr Snow swung the viewing device back towards the lake.

The lead vessel of the Iron Master's flotilla had now drawn alongside
the stricken flank-boat.  The third boat lay stationary in the water
some way behind the first two, a thin line of smoke curling lazily
upwards from its funnels.  In the distance, the two remaining vessels
were beached below the trading post.

Handing the viewer to Awesome-Wells, a M'Call clan-elder and long-time
friend, Mr Snow closed his eyes, took a deep breath and steeled himself
fo what lay ahead.  For over an hour he had watched the flower of the
She-Kargo and M'Waukee fall under the knives of the D'Troit, had
witnessed the bravery of Dark-Star and the other summoners.  Now it was
time to put his own life on the line - and maybe lose it in attempting
to save the Plain folk.

He could not think of a better reason for having lived until this
moment.

Commending his spirit to Mo-Town, he stretched up his arms and silently
prayed to Talisman to grant him power over earth and sky.

Let me be your dark, avenging angel,t The earth shivered under his
feet.  High above his head a dark cloud formed in the clear sky and
spread rapidly in all directions.  A cry burst from his throat.  A cry
so terrible, those around him fell to the ground, vainly trying to
cover their ears.  Some who dared to look upon his face said afterwards
that his eyes became two points of blazing white fire.

Drawing the invisible power down from the sky and upwards from the
earth with sweeping movements of his hands, Mr Snow hurled it downwards
towards the lake, his fingers aiming at a point midway between the
northern and southern shore, some three miles beyond the sandbars.

Samurai-General Oshio Shinoda, on the bridge of his flag-ship, watched
the dark cloud form with growing disbelief.  A distant rumble of
thunder seemed to come from within the bowels of the earth and was
followed by an answering peal from the darkening sky.

The lake became ominously still, with scarcely a ripple disturbing its
surface.  The air had ceased to move.  It was as if the whole world
was holding its breath.

As a soldier, Shinoda was without fear, but the inexplicable moods of
the kami who inhabited the natural world filled him with unreasoning
terror which - as supreme commander of the expedition - he had to do
his best to hide.

The spreading cloud blotted out the sun, casting a shadow across the
lake.  The ground trembled bringing a hushed silence as the warring
Mutes paused uncertainly, pursued and pursuer united in their fear of
earth-thunder.

The Mutes in the defensive line at the foot of the bluffs were equally
alarmed but they, at least, had been warned about what was to follow.

Scrambling back up the slopes, they urged the panicky She-Kargo
warriors to follow them as fast as possible.  Those now lined along the
top called down to their companions, urging them not to look back.

Whatever happened, they must keep climbing.

Their exhortations were lost under a longer and much louder,
stomach-clenching rumble of subterranean thunder which caused loose
earth and stones to slide down the fissured slopes.  Some of the
exhausted warriors lost their footing, the rest clung on grimly until
the mini-avalanche ceased then clawed their way upwards with a new
sense of urgency.

A circular depression appeared in the lake at the point on which Mr
Snow's powers were focused.  For a moment, the water appeared to be
draining down a huge plug-hole then the depression became elongated,
spreading quickly to either shore.  Now it seemed as if a vast
bottomless trench had opened up into which the whole lake was emptying
itself.

The three Yama-Shita wheel-boats began to drift helplessly towards it,
like empty matchboxes being carded along a rain-filled gutter towards a
cavernous drain.

Then there was another clap of thunder.  But this one was
mind-splitting not just ear-splitting, and it was twinned with an even
more violent earth-tremor that threw everyone who was standing to the
ground.

Only Mr Snow remained upright, surrounded by an eerie vertical shaft of
light composed of shifting planes that changed colour as they
intermeshed.  To those who dared to raise their heads from the ground,
he appeared to be standing on the threshold of the world beyond, in
thrall to the spiritual powers that flowed through his rigid body.

Another rumble of thunder.  The trench-like depression splitting the
surface of the lake filled abruptly and rose to become a vast wall of
water as the sunken bed was pushed upwards by a convulsive subterranean
eruption.

Rising two hundred feet into the air, the wall of water tilted and fell
forwards towards the shore, creating a giant tidal wave whose foaming
edge dwarfed the wheel-boats that lay in its path.

Neither the frenzied orders of Samurai-General Shinoda, nor the
seamanship of Captain Yukinagi could save the vessels or their crews.

Picked up and, pinned at an impossible angle against the curving front
of the wave, the wheel-boats were carried at sickening speed over the
sand-bar and the western shore of the lagoon then smashed and ground to
pieces in the breaking surf that spread for several miles over the land
beyond.

The beached wheel-boats of the non-belligerent Ko-Nikka and Se-Iko
suffered the same fate.  Everyone on shore, Prime-Cut, Judas-Priest and
the other collaborators in the war-council, the advancing hordes of
D'Troit, C'Natti and San'Louis, the samurai cavalry - all were swept
away and drowned or battered to death in the vicious undertow.

Only those who had reached the top of the bluffs, or had managed to
scramble more than a hundred feet above the shoreline were spared.  The
tidal wave, sweeping down on the sand-bar had gained extra height as it
was forced against the bluff, carrying the stragglers away as it
passed.

The bulk of the force who managed to reach the northern shore escaped
with their lives but there was no cheering, no celebration.  The
circumstances surrounding their deliverance were so awesome, the scale
of death so overwhelming, the survivors fell wordlessly to the ground,
overcome with grief and sheer physical exhaustion.

Mr Snow was one of them.  Awesome-Wells and Boston-Bruin ran towards
him.  For several agonizing minutes they thought he was dead.  The
lighter parts of his skin were greyish-white, and his almost weightless
body, cradled in their arms, felt like a sack of loose bones.

Eventually his eyes fluttered open, but they too were drained of
life.

Awesome-Wells took hold of Mr Snow's hands and squeezed the unresisting
fingers.  'Old One!  Old One!

Do you know who I am?"

Mr Snow's eyes searched slowly for the speaker but seemed unable to
focus on the faces of those who knelt over him.  His lips moved
soundlessly.

Awesome-Wells placed his ear against them to try and catch what looked
like the last words the Old One might utter.

'Is it...over...?"

'Yes.  Most of the She-Kargo and their blood-brothers have survived but
everything else has gone.  The D'Troit, C'Natti and San'Louis, the
wheel-boats, the trading post ?.  . all have been swept away."  He
paused but there was no response.  Awesome looked up at those around
him then sought the answer to one last question.  'Tell us, Old One was
this the Great Dying the Sky Voices spoke of so long ago?"

'Part... of it, yes.  Talisman has.  has cut.  the poisoned .  . .

branches from .  . . the .  . . tree that is the ... P!ainfolk.  We who
... have.  been chosen must.  must make sure.  they never.

grow...

again."

'He did more than cut the poisoned branches!"  cried Boston-Bruin.  His
voice was harsh with anger and grief.

'The She-Kargo, M'Waukee and San'Paul will never be able to count their
dead!  We alone have lost close to half our clanfolk!  If, as you say,
we're supposed to be Talisman's chosen people why did he not spare all
of us?!"  Mr Snow closed his eyes.  'Ahhh, Boston... Boston,' he
whispered.  'Why must you.  always.  ask questions to which there.

is... no... answer?"

CHAPTER SEVEN

Two days later, when Steve, Night-Fever and the band of M'Call Bears
came in sight of Lake Superior, the water carried inland by the tidal
wave had not yet drained from the dips and hollows in the terrain.

Ranging in size from large puddles to miniature lakes, the farthest
pools were up to seven miles from the fatal shore.  Bodies and debris
littered the entire triangle of land enclosed by the estuary of the St
Louis River but the eye was drawn to the shattered remains of the five
wheel-boats which rose out of the waterlogged grass like the
dismembered carcasses of beached whales.

Moving mechanically through this sombre landscape were groups of
scavengers; the numbed survivors of the She-Kargo, M'Waukee and
San'Paul.  It was clear there had been a major catastrophe with massive
loss of life, and to judge from what was left of the wheel-boats, the
Iron Master trading expedition had been virtually wiped out.

Steve dismounted and used a length of cord to fasten the front and rear
left leg of his horse together.  This allowed the animal to walk and
graze freely but stopped it from straying too far.  Until they found
out what had happened and who had won, it would have been unwise to
proceed further on horseback.  It could raise questions that might
prove difficult to answer - especially if they were posed by a bunch of
bellicose nips facing a long walk home.

Leaving Night-Fever to guard the roped horse against jackals and other
predators, Steve's party made their way down the slope and met up with
a small group of She-Kargo Mutes.  They were from the Clan M'Kormik, a
close neighbour of the M'Call's.  All of them looked pale and
subdued.

Cat-Ballou, the leader of Steve's escort, exchanged formal greetings
then, in hushed tones, asked what had caused such devastation.

For a moment none of the M'Kormik warriors replied then, one by one,
beginning with a Bear called First-Blood, they took turns to describe
what had happened with a kind of dazed weariness.  There was none of
the elation which, as victors, they might have been expected to
display.  Mutes were no strangers to pain or sudden death but the tidal
wave had claimed nearly two hundred thousand lives.  No one had
witnessed destruction on this scale since the legendary War of a
Thousand Suns.

Rough-Cut, the last to speak, concluded the harrowing tale with a
sweeping gesture that took in the empty shoreline which, as Steve
suddenly realized, had lost its familiar landmark.

'Even the trading post has gone!  Torn from the ground and snapped in
two by the wrath of Talisman."

'Oyy-yehhh!"  groaned the M'Call Bears.

'And the Iron Masters?"  enquired Steve.

Rough-Cut's face darkened.  'We have killed all those in which a breath
of life lingered."

'And the treacherous dogs from the bloodline of the D'Troit have
suffered the same fate,' added First-Blood.

'But all those from the C'Natti and San'Louis who could still walk were
sent away unharmed."

Steve frowned.  'I thought they were in this together."

'They were,' replied First-Blood, 'But our elders said they should be
allowed to go free to bear witness to the fate reserved for those who
deny Talisman and seek to divide the Plainfolk!"  'And what of our
wordsmith, Mr Snow?"  asked Cat-Ballou.

'The Storm-Bringer, whose body served as the hammer which Talisman used
to smite the D'Troit?

Where can we find him?"

Rough-Cut exchanged glances with his companions then pointed towards
the high ground north of the lagoon.

'His body lies above the Great river.  There, where you see the smoke
rising."

Steve's stomach turned over.  'His body?!  Is he dead?"

'It is hard to say,' replied First-Blood.  'The elders say he crosses
over then returns.  With so many dead, Mo-Town's cup must be filled to
overflowing.  Perhaps there is not yet room for him on the other
side."

Terrific... So much for the master plan.  Steve tried to sound cool,
calm and collected.  'How can we get there?"

First-Blood directed him to the river crossing then he and his
companions moved past them in search of another untouched heap of
debris.

Steve hurried back to where he had left the horse, climbed into the
saddle, told Night-Fever where he was going, and galloped back to
Cat-Ballou.  'See you guys up there - okay?"

The M'Call Bears watched him ride away then looked at each other in
silent agreement.  Having walked and run seven hundred miles, sitting
on the back of a horse and letting it carry you where you wanted to go
was beginning to look like an interesting idea.

After leading his horse up the face of the bluff, one of the first
persons Steve came across was Carnegie-Hall.

Before he could open his mouth, Steve took the wordsmith aside and
explained that he was travelling incognito.  Talisman did not wish him
to be identified as one of The Chosen at this particular moment in
time.

Flattered to be the sole guardian of such an earthshaking secret,
Carnegie-Hall readily agreed to keep shtum.  He led Steve over to Mr
Snow's makeshift bed where he was greeted by the surviving clan elders
from the M'Call trade delegation - Awesome-Wells and Boston-Bruin.

Blue-Thunder, the paramount warrior was there too; wounded, but still
mobile - along with several other Bears that Steve recognized.

Steve sat cross-legged for over an hour by Mr Snow's side willing his
eyes to open.  Eventually they did.  All the colour and sparkle had
gone out of them, but there was a faint flicker of recognition when
they finally alighted on Steve.

'What kept you?"  The Old One's face was thin and drawn - aged almost
beyond recognition, his voice barely audible.

'Oh, this and that."

Mr Snow's eyes wandered past him then gave up the search.

'Where's...?"

'They couldn't make it."  Steve forced a lightness into his voice.

'You going to lie there for ever?  Your friends here want to invite you
to a big party."

Mr Snow's lips twitched in a pale imitation of his mischievous smile.

'You... may have to... start...

without me."  Stringing more than three words together seemed to drain
all his strength.  He paused for a while and tried again.  'Are they.

safe?"

'Cadillac is."  Steve outlined what had happened after leaving the
Kojak.  Having spoken to Carnegie-Hall, he knew there was no need to
repeat the whole story.  It was difficult to know how much Mr Snow was
taking in.  He took hold of a withered hand.  It felt so fragile, he
dared not squeeze it for fear of crushing the bones.  'That's why we
need you back on your feet.  You're the only one with the power to get
clearwater off that train."

Mr Snow sighed and closed his eyes.  The forefinger of the hand lying
on his chest twitched, beckoning Steve to come closer.

Steve leant over to catch what he was trying to say.

'What are you.  trying to.  . . do... kill me?"

In the days following the Battle of the Trading Post, the clan elders
and warriors of the victorious delegations conferred on what to do
next.  Clearly nothing could be as it was before.  When the D'Troit,
C'Natti and San'Louis clans learned of their defeat there would be
great bitterness.

The enmity between the opposing bloodlines would deepen, the character
of the fighting would change.  Not the traditional clashes between
rival bands of warriors but large-scale confrontations- and perhaps a
permanent state of war.

It was a gloomy prospect.  The She-Kargo, M'Waukee and San'Paul had
made common cause against the D'Troit faction but that did not mean
their own traditional hostility to one another had evaporated.  In a
sense, this year's journey to the trading post had been the Plainfolk's
road to Damascus but there had been no miraculous conversion.  The
atmosphere was not now filled with harmony and light.  Each clan, while
sharing the bond of a common bloodline was still fiercely protective of
its own identity and its turf.

What had brought the She-Kargo, M'Waukee and San'Paul together on that
fateful day and the desperate hours preceding it was their unshakeable
belief in Talisman and their willingness to accept the advent of The
Chosen, whereas the D'Troit and its fellow-travellers were apparently
ready to ditch those self-same beliefs in exchange for a deal with the
hated dead-faces.

All the clans wished to trade with the Iron Masters if only for the
simple reason that no one wanted to find themselves living next-door to
a better-armed - and thus stronger - clan.  But the Mutes were under no
illusions about the impact these trading contacts would have on the
traditional life-style and belief-system of the Plainfolk.  From the
very beginning, they knew they were getting the worst of a deal.  And
the fact they had been forced to trade by the threat of armed invasion
by highly-organized predators had offended their sense of honour.

But it was the best and only offer available.  And by accepting it, the
Mutes had been able to delay the advance of their other enemy - the
sand-burrowers.

Everyone knew they were being ripped off but the point was all the
clans from the six major bloodlines had accepted the conditions laid
down by the Iron Masters.

It was a collective rip-off and that, in some strange way, made it
bearable.  The mistake the D'Troit had made was in appearing to have
come to a more favourable arrangement with the dead-faces in a way that
would give the D'Troit extra power and advantages the other bloodlines
would not share.

They had come close to succeeding, but their attempt to win hearts and
minds by isolating the M'Calls and the She-Kargo had been foiled by Mr
Snow's rousing defence.  In implementing Lord Hirohito's plan, his
successor, Aishi Sakimoto, had overlooked the crucial flaw in the
domain-lord's strategy.  The endemic hostility between individual clans
and bloodlines imperilled the long-term future of the Plainfolk but the
She-Kargo, M'Waukee, San'Paul, San'Louis - and to some extent the
C'Natti - were united by their fear and hatred of the D'Troit.

The majority of the C'Natti delegations had submerged these feelings in
the hope of gaining the advantages that would accrue from being on the
winning side - and had suffered terrible losses as a result.  Whether
they would now change sides remained to be seen.  The few C'Natti who
had survived the tidal wave and had been spared in the subsequent
mopping-up operation were still too shocked to think rationally about
the future.

It was a future which no one taking part in this first council could
contemplate with any great pleasure.  It seemed unlikely that the Iron
Masters would return cap-in-hand to apologize for instigating the
attack on the She-Kargo.  They had obviously intended to punish the
M'Calls and the entire bloodline for the actions of The Chosen in the
Eastern Lands.  This could not be allowed to happen.  No one who
believed in the Talisman Prophecy could fail to defend those who had
been sent to herald the coming of the Thrice-Gifted One.

The dead-faces would return, but not to trade.  From now on, the
Plainfolk would have to rely on their own resources.  Still stunned by
the massive and merciless blow Talisman had struck on their behalf, few
relished the prospect of defending themselves against marauding bands
of dead-faces armed with an endless supply of long sharp-iron.

At the outset it seemed an impossible goal.  Mr Snow, exhausted and at
death's door, was unable to lend his reasoned eloquence or wisdom to
the debate but at the end of five argumentative and sometimes
acrimonious days a fragile consensus emerged.  All agreed that the
Battle of the Trading Post marked the end of an era.

From henceforth, the interests of individual clans would have to take
second place to the protection of the Plainfolk.  Warriors who, over
the centuries, had been blooded by challenging and killing their peers
from neighbouring clans would now have to earn their standing in combat
with the real enemies of the Plainfolk - the dead-faces and the
sand-burrowers.

It was this issue- inter-clan blood-letting- that aroused the most
controversy.  To deny this right of challenge struck deep into the
warrior ethos.  The courage to brave close, single-combat was - for the
Mutes - absolutely fundamental.  It was the corner-stone of their
existence, the means by which an individual and the clan to which they
belonged measured their worth.

The history of the Plainfolk was the history of heroes.

Those who had 'chewed bone' stout hearts whose sharp-iron had filled
head-poles.  Before the Battle of the Trading Post, no warrior worthy
of the name would have used a crossbow in combat against his peers.

Long sharp-iron was used solely for hunting game; the rifles and other
weapons used by the sand-burrowers were proof of their cowardice, their
lack of honour.  They were animals whose blood-lust knew no bounds.

That was why it was permissible to use the cross-bow when fighting
them.

The Iron Masters used a different kind of bow and arrow made of wood.

It had a shorter range than the crossbow but a much higher rate of
fire.  They also possessed other fearsome sharp-iron, long curved
swords that could slice through flesh and bone and the heavy black
pipes on the wheel-boats that spoke with the voice of sky-thunder and
whose fiery breath could tear a man to pieces at five hundred paces.

Their readiness to use such weapons plus the fact they were an alien
race placed them in the same category as the sand-burrowers.  A
category to which - because of their denial of Talisman - the D'Troit
and their coconspirators had also been consigned.

The use of long sharp-iron had always aroused strong emotions.

Following the battle with The Lady from Louisiana, Mr Snow had stressed
the need to develop not just new tactics but a totally new concept of
making war.

His radical proposals had not gone down well with the traditionalists
within his own clan.  There had been further objections following the
gift by Lord Yama-Shita of a hundred repeating rifles.  Cut off from
further supplies of ammunition, they were now useless - as his
opponents had predicted.

Such deep-rooted differences of opinion over such a wide range of
issues could not be resolved in the space of five days, but there was
general agreement that the discussions should continue.  The number of
the issues on which they were united was greater than the sum total of
those on which they remained divided.

Each delegation made a solemn pledge to come to the aid of any clan
attacked by the D'Troit faction or the dead-faces, but before this
could happen the present patchy bush-telegraph had to be replaced by a
more effective nation-wide system of communications.  The discussions
on how this could be set up would continue within each bloodline, and
it was agreed that delegates from the clans now present would consider
any proposals put forward when the first Plainfolk Council was convened
at Big Running White Water (Sioux Falls, South Dakota) in three months'
time.

Meanwhile, the five-week truce which came into effect during the
trading period was to be extended through the summer and would embrace
any clans of the D'Troit and C'Natti who were prepared to recognize The
Chosen as the heralds of Talisman and pledge their allegiance to the
Plainfolk.

In his guise as a simple warrior from the Clan m'call, Steve took no
part in the discussions and his interest in the emerging alliance was,
at best, academic.  His overriding concern was the health of Mr Snow.

The M'Call delegation were also concerned but not to the same extent.

They were governed by the fatalism that coloured the Mute view of
death.  After his experiences on the overground, Steve was increasingly
drawn to the idea of a continuing cycle of existence, but in his
present predicament the prospect of Mr Snow re-entering the world at
some future date in a new body offered little consolation.  What he
needed was Mr Snow up on his feet and able to call down some heavy shit
in the here and now.

As a wordsmith, Mr Snow could be replaced by Cadillac.  He did not have
the Old One's stature but even Mr Snow had been a young man once.

Cadillac's appointment would give him standing within the clan and in
time he would grow into the job, but he was not a summoner.  There was
only one person who could replace the Storm-Bringer - Clearwater.

In urging the clan elders to do their utmost to keep Mr Snow alive,
Steve described the powers Clearwater had revealed during their escape
from Ne-Issan - powers that might one day surpass even those of the Old
One.

Aroused by his tales of derring-do the elders promised to do all they
could to help rescue her from Red River - even if Mr Snow died.  If it
was the will of Talisman, they assured him, the whole clan would lay
down their lives for her.

A nice gesture but one which would make her rescue a totally pointless
operation.  In trying to sound helpful, the elders were blinding
themselves to the fact that, without Mr Snow's presence and the use of
his power Clearwater could not be rescued.  In his many arguments with
Cadillac, Steve had hammered on about not relying on earth-magic but
this time their lives depended on it.

Only a summoner with the power and presence of Mr Snow could give them
the edge they needed.

It was not just practical considerations that were involved; there was
a moral dimension.  Despite the promise made by the clan elders, Steve
knew that without Mr Snow, the M'Calls would not attack the
wagon-train.  And if Cadillac tried to persuade them to do so, Steve
would do his utmost to prevent it.  He had witnessed the reckless
bravery of the Bears at the Battle of The Now and Then River when they
had been aided by Mr Snow's earth-magic.  His powers had been awesome
but in the end, the M'Calls' irrational desire to throw themselves
headlong upon the enemy regardless of the cost had led to a senseless
slaughter and eventual rout.  After the losses suffered at the trading
post he was not prepared to support any ill-prepared adventures that
could lead to even greater sacrifice.

Not even for you, little sister...

Over the next few days, as the talks between the delegations continued,
Mr Snow gradually recovered some of his strength.  He could not sit up
unaided, and he was far too weak to walk, but his spirit had returned
from that twilight zone between this world and the next and was once
more anchored firmly in his physical body.

His face was still pale and haggard but the colour and some of the
sparkle had come back into his eyes, and the famous smile, though
tired, occasionally contained a hint of its old mischief.

His voice now seemed to be set in a husky whisper and he spoke only
when necessary using as few words as possible, but as time passed, his
powers of concentration increased, and from what little he said it was
clear that the brain inside the wizened, white-haired skull was as
sharp as a razor.

During these longer periods of wakefulness, Steve related in greater
detail his adventures in Ne-Issan with the ronin, his high-risk,
heart-stopping involvement with the Herald Hase-Gawa, the conspiracy
against the Shogun, and the final battle and escape from the Heron
Pool.

'I'm not surprised the Yama-Shita... went.  for the throat,' husked Mr
Snow.

'Yeah, but it's not entirely my fault,' protested Steve.

'The Heron Pool was blown apart because the Shogun wanted to crush the
conspiracy against him.  And the reason we got mixed up in it was
because of your deal with Lord Yama-Shita.  If you hadn't sent Cadillac
and Clearwater over there none of this would have happened!"  'Just
doing what I was told..."

'You mean by the Sky Voices?  Talisman?"

'The Path is drawn, Brickman.  Someone once said: "All the world's a
stage, and all the men and women merely players"."

'Yeah..."  Steve was unaware of the immense legacy of dramatic art and
literature that had been buried by the Holocaust so the quotation made
little sense.

'Anyway,' he continued, 'Cadillac fell on his feet, but for a while she
had a really bad time.  So when we blew up the Heron Pool, she took the
opportunity to even the score - saving our necks in the process.  Do
you blame her?"

'No."  Mr Snow gave a breathy laugh.  'Life isn't fair is it?  Poor old
Prime-Cut ' 'The big-noise from the D'Troit?"

'Yes.  Apart from us having done a deal with the Federation, every
charge he levelled against us was true."

'And in spite of that you ran rings round him."

'So everyone says.  But I didn't lie."

'Well, except for that bit about The Chosen."

'That wasn't a lie.  You are one of The Chosen."

Steve frowned.  'But I'm not a Mute."

'No."  Mr Snow closed his eyes and let his head fall onto the furs that
covered the sloping backrest.

Not yet, Brickman.  Not yet...

Having reached a measure of agreement, the delegations spent the sixth
and seventh day trading amongst themselves.

In addition to preserving most of the goods they had brought with them
to trade with the Iron Masters, everyone who was not engaged in
deciding the future of the Plainfolk had been busily scouring the
battlefield for whatever they could find: crossbows, bolts, knives,
items of clothing, Iron Master swords, helmets and body armour, ship's
cannon - the list was endless.  The dead even their own - were too
numerous to cope with.  Unable to give them the usual burial rites or
collect them in heaps for burning, the corpses were stripped and left
for the circling death-birds.

Those who decided they had too many crossbows and not enough bolts, or
preferred to exchange both for samurai long-swords, set up an impromptu
arms bazaar.

Their initiative was quickly followed by their rivals and it was not
long before each delegation set out its other wares - food, furs, dried
fish and buffalo meat, dream-cap and rainbow-grass.

It proved to be a novel and rewarding experience, and everyone promised
to bring similar goods to the proposed meeting of the Plainfolk Council
at Sioux Falls.

Why, they asked each other, had no one ever thought of this before?

Nobody suggested trading the surviving journey-men.  The idea that
males and females from one clan might take partners from another was so
radical it simply never entered anyone's head.

Laden with their booty, the clan delegations bade each other farewell
and went their various ways.  The happiest were the journey-men and
-women who had been chosen to make the journey down the Great River and
were going home instead.  But their joy at returning to their families
was muted by the loss of their clan-brothers and sisters.  The general
mood was one of sombre optimism.

There could be no going back, and no one looked back as another
wheeling flock of death-birds, drawn in from all corners of the sky,
swooped down to join those al
