The Amtrak Wars - Book 4 - Blood River 

By: Patrick Tilley

Synopsis:

On the snow-swept overground, Steve, Cadillac and Clearwater meet with
triumph and disaster as they try to evade the clutches of both the Iron
Masters and the First Family.  The samurai of Ne-Issan prove to be
tenacious adversaries and the rulers of the Federation have no
intention of loosening their grip on Steve Brickman.  For he and his
friends are valuable pawns in a game which, if lost, could spell the
end of the First Family's dream of reconquering the blue-sky world.

Also by Patrick Tilley:

MISSION

THE AMTRAK WARS BOOK 1: CLOUD WARRIOR

THE AMTRAK WARS BOOK 2: FIRST FAMILY THE AMTRAK WARS BOOK 3: IRON
MASTER THE AMTRAK WARS BOOK 5: DEATH-BRINGER

THE AMTRAK WARS BOOK 6: EARTH-THUNDER

DARK VISIONS: THE ILLUSTRATED GUIDE TO THE AMTRAK WARS FADEOUT

STAR WARTZ

The Amtrak Wars Book 4: Blood River

PATRICK TILLEY

ORBIT

An Orbit Book

First published in Great Britain by Sphere Books l.td 1988

Reprinted 989, 99o, 199

Reprinted by Warner Books 995

Reprinted 1996

Reprinted by Orbit 998

Copyright ?1988 by Patrick Tilley All rights reserved.

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval
system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the prior
permission in writing of the publisher, nor be otherwise circulated in
any form of binding or cover other than that in which it is published
and without a similar condition including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser.

ISBN i 85723 538 X

Printed in England by Clays l.td, St lyes plc

Companies, institutions and other organiza6ons wishing to make bulk
purchases of this or any other books published by l.inle, Brown, should
contact their local bookshop or the special sales department at the
address below.

Tel o171 911 8ooo.  Fax o171 9i i 8too.

Orbit

A Division of little, Brown and Company (ilK) Bretxenham House
Lancaster Place london we2E 7EN In loving memory of my mother born
Agnes Rose Lewer July 22nd, 1904-December 1st, 1987 who gave me the
priceless gift of education but whose formidable personality caused me
to censor everything I wrote.

God bless you, Ma.  Hang on to your halo.

This is where it starts to get interesting.

BOOK 4:

BLOOD RIVER

CHAPTER ONE

If it had not been for the fact that his youngest son suddenly took it
into his head to totter through the partially-open door while his
mother's back was turned, Izo Wantanabe would not have leapt up from
his writing table and stepped out onto the deck of the houseboat.

Had he not done so, the winter months would have passed with their
usual tranquil monotony and the lives of several hundred of his
comrades in arms would have been spared or, at the very least, expended
on a more profitable enterprise.

But it was not to be.  Fate, in the guise of fatherly concern,
compelled him to follow and, as he scooped up the infant and lifted him
shoulder high, he saw something which took his breath away.

Two dark stiff-winged objects were moving across the sky on a line that
would take them almost directly above the boat on which he stood.  The
objects were heading in a south-westerly direction, along the ragged
forward edge of a massive blanket of grey cloud now advancing over Lake
Mi-shiga from the northwest.

Oblivious of the wind-driven snow-flakes that were beginning to swirl
round him, Izo Wantanabe stood there open-mouthed with his small son
clutched to his breast and watched as the objects passed over the jetty
to which the wheelboat was moored then grew smaller and were finally
swallowed by the advancing snow-cloud.

And there he stayed, his dark button eyes fixed on the point where the
two winged dots had vanished, oblivious of the tiny fingers that pulled
playfully at his bottom lip.

The questions raised by what he had just witnessed caused him to forget
the original reason for being there and it took the shrill cries of his
wife, Yumiko, to alert him to the fact that his son's unprotected head
was now liberally coated with snow.

Wantanabe meekly allowed Tomo to be snatched from him and followed his
wife inside.

By the traditional laws of domestic etiquette, a wife was not permitted
to upbraid her husband but, in practice, that convention was normally
only observed when friends, relatives, servants or superiors were
present.  A wife was duty bound to respect and obey her husband but
that did not stop the more spirited (or malicious) members of the
female sex from giving their menfolk an earful in private - or showing
their displeasure in other, more subtle ways.

Wantanabe seated himself on the mat behind his writing desk and endured
the inevitable blast for endangering the health of his youngest child
in dignified silence.  He knew Yumiko's concern was well-founded but
his mind was engaged on other, far more important matters which she,
being a woman, could not be expected to understand.

He slowly twirled the point of his writing brush on the ink block and
let her voice flow unheeded through his brain.  Stripped of their
meaning, the stream of words resembled the clucking of an irate hen
driven from a newly-laid egg before she has had time to admire her
handiwork.

Eventually, as the ten-month-old child was vigorously rubbed dry and
his happy gurgles indicated that he was not about to expire, the
reproachful clucking was replaced by the soft mothering sounds that
humans and animals use when nurturing their young.  And shortly
afterwards, when he had been dressed in dry clean clothes, the
glowing-checked child was presented to his father as a peace
offering.

Musing upon the fact that his wife's moods were as predictable as night
and day, Wantanabe gathered Tomo briefly in his arms, bestowed a kiss
on his soft, downy skull then handed him back carefully.  For Yumiko,
the crisis was over, harmony was restored.  Her husband's problems were
only just beginning.

Izo Wantanabe and his wife Yumiko came from a race of people known to
their neighbours as Iron Masters; a stratified collection of asiatic
bloodlines in which the Japanese formed the top layer, followed by
Chinese, Korean then the other ethnic groups in descending order.

Each group's position related directly to the distance - in the World
Before - of their ancestral lands from a sacred site known as Mount
Fuji.

Successive waves of the Iron Masters' ancestors had landed on the
north-eastern coast of North America between 2300 and 2400 A.D. Now,
six centuries later, the seventeen domains that made up their nation
state known as Ne-Issan - stretched from the Atlantic to Lake Erie, and
from the St Lawrence Seaway to Cape Fear, in North Carolina.

Wantanabe's family owed its allegiance to the noble house of
Yama-Shita, holder of the exclusive licence to trade with the
grass-monkeys who roamed the endless Western Plains.  Izo's family
formed part of the Japanese ruling class but he himself was a
love-child produced by one of his father's Chinese concubines.

The resulting social stigma, while not catastrophic, meant he was
permanently barred from the high appointments open to his peer group
and that his future wife should he choose to marry - would have to be
Chinese.

This had led to his decision to enter commerce, for it was here that
many Chinese families had flourished, and his father's connections had
secured him a junior position in one of the rich trading houses with a
string of depots from Bu-faro on Lake In to the Eastern Sea.

His alert intelligence, plus a head for figures and a flair for
organisation, won him quick promotion and a fortunate introduction to
Yumiko, the fourth daughter of a Chinese merchant who, with a shrewd
eye to the main chance, provided her with a handsome dowry.

The father's gamble on Izo's family connections did not bring the
hoped-for rewards.  After Yumiko had given birth to a son and a
daughter, and was carrying Tomo within her, the senior partner's latent
disapproval of Izo's mixed parentage was finally revealed when he was
twice passed over in the annual round of promotions, putting an end to
his hopes of reaching the top echelons.

His despair, however, had been short-lived.  Summoned to the palace at
Sara-kusa, Izo Wantanabe had been met by an official of Lord
Yama-Shita's court who offered him the post of Resident Agent to the
Outlands.

He would, explained the trade-captain, be one of a trial batch of five
appointees - the first to be stationed beyond the borders of
Ne-Issan.

Aware that this was a heaven-sent opportunity to get in on the ground
floor of a pioneering enterprise and escape from the veiled but
vengeful discrimination that continued to shadow his marriage and
career, Izo accepted the offer without hesitation.

The wheelboats of the Yama-Shita had visited the two established
trading posts at Bei-sita and Du-aruta once a year for several decades,
but in the summer of 2990

Domain-Lord Hiro Yama-Shita had decided to set up a chain of resident
commercial agents to develop regular contacts with the Mute clans in
the hinterland.

Izo and the other four appointees were to be the first links in this
chain which - if positive results were obtained - would eventually
extend right around the southern shores of the four, interconnected
lakes which formed the Western Sea; the vast body of water the Mutes
called 'The Great River'.

Each resident would live with his family aboard a house-boat, smaller
cousins of the three-storied steam-powered monsters that made the
annual journey to Du-aruta.  It was envisaged that the house-boats
would be permanently moored to purpose-built jetties but, if the need
arose, they could always cast off and put to sea.

Domestic servants would be provided and the boats would be maintained
and, if need be, protected, by a small detachment of sea-soldiers.

For Izo, it meant assuming the leadership of an enclosed community of
thirty-five souls.  Food and other stores would be delivered by sea
until adequate supplies could be obtained locally.

Yumiko had not been overjoyed at the prospect of an isolated existence
in the back of beyond, but the chance to make a fresh start plus the
generous lump sum payable on completion of a nine-year term and the
promise of three months' paid home leave for every thirty-six served in
the outlands had softened her protests.

The possibility that she and her family might not even survive three
years, let alone nine, did not appear to have occurred to her and Izo
had wisely kept silent about the possible dangers of living amongst a
horde of unwashed, unfettered savages.

The first four residents were posted to Detroit, Saginaw Bay,
Cheboygan, and Ludington.  Izo Wantanabe, the last far-flung link in
the chain, was anchored at a place once known as Benton Harbour, twenty
miles north of the point where, on pre-Holocaust maps, the Indiana
state line met the eastern shore of Lake Michigan.

Their primary task was to forge closer trade links, including the
recruitment of more 'guest-workers'.  They were to achieve this by
commercial and cultural 'counselling', the purpose of which was to
change the Mutes' perception of the Iron Masters as cold and forbidding
into something more.  paternal.  Firm (the grass-monkeys despised
weakness) yet benign.

That, in itself, was a job and a half but the residents had also been
entrusted with an equally important, parallel assignment; the gathering
of intelligence.

Following the first incursions by the Federation wagon-trains into
Plainfolk territory in 2989, the conflict between Tracker and Mute had
been drawing ever closer to the borders of Ne-Issan.  Lord Yama-Shita
had hit upon the idea of using the residents - Wantanabe in particular
- as forward listening-posts.  Their genuine effort to improve trade
relations would provide both the cover and the opportunity to gather
information about the Federation's war machine and its northward and
eastward advance towards the Running Red Buffalo Hills - the
Plainfolk's name for the Northern Appalachians.

As point man, Izo Wantanabe was nearest the action.

Up to now, the probing advances of the warriors from the Deserts of the
South appeared to have stopped at the west bank of the wide, meandering
river the outlanders called the Miz-Hippy.  The river had its source in
a cluster of lakes to the north-west of Du-ruta.  Wantanabe had only
been on the ground for less than four months so much remained to be
discovered, but according to his initial contacts, the iron snakes had
never attempted to cross this waterway.  Whether they could not, or did
not wish to do so, remained to be seen.

The Plainfolk had said the iron snakes preferred to follow the lines of
the ancient hardways - most of which, outside Ne-Issan, had long since
crumbled into dust.

From a captured Federation map acquired in exchange for six knives it
was clear the iron snakes (which their owners called wagon-trains)
would have to cross a number of smaller rivers to reach the
Miz-Hippy.

Izo Wantanabe had not yet seen one of these much-feared killing
machines for himself but perhaps because of their huge size or the
manner of their construction they could not float across a river like a
loaded cart drawn by oxen and supported on air-filled bags made from
animal skins.  So much the better.  It meant that, until a bridge was
built or suitable ferry craft were put in place, the iron snakes would
be held at bay perhaps indefinitely.  Gangs of construction workers
were a soft target and even if bridges and ferries were completed, they
could still be attacked and burned by determined bands of men.

The Miz-Hippy was like the wide moats that surrounded the
palace-castles of the domain-lords of Ne-Issan.  It formed an almost
endless defensive line which - as far as he knew - could only be turned
by journeying northwards around the Western Sea.

Densely-forested hills pitted with lakes formed the first line of
defence.  If this was penetrated the iron snakes would be halted by the
San-Oransa, the wide river that protected Ne-Issan's border domains.

But not the skies above them.  These marauding serpents carried winged
chariots that could travel through the cloud world of the kami.

Rivers and mountains were no barrier to them.

The grass-monkeys called these chariots 'arrowheads', and the soldiers
who rode in them were known as 'cloud-warriors'.

Up to this moment, all the stories about 'arrowheads' dropping
fire-blossoms from the sky and killing people with long sharp iron were
nothing more than hearsay.

EXaggerated rumours.  None of his informants had ever seen an
'arrowhead'.  Neither had Izo Wantanabe until today - when he had seen
two!  Only these sky-chariots were not like the crafts his informants
had described.

Their wings were not triangular.  They were stretched out on either
side of their bodies like those of a gliding seabird.  And they had a
tail - not fan-shaped like that of a bird, but a tail nevertheless
attached by two beams to the wings on either side of the plump body.

Their shape, in one sense, was immaterial.  Izo Wantanabe was in no
doubt that the sky-chariots were a product of the Federation.  Merely
to look upon them sent a chill down the spine.  They were dark alien
things whose form could not have been conceived in the soul of a noble
samurai.  But what were they doing in a sky filled with snow?

Lord Yama-Shita's trade captain had told him that the iron snakes
retreated south to their underground lairs during the winter months and
his own tame grass-monkeys had confirmed this was so.  But .  . . if
there were sky-chariots aloft, it meant that somewhere away to the
south-west, an iron snake was lurking.  Hiding perhaps in a forest,
awaiting their return.

Yes ... News of its presence and its exact whereabouts would soon - if
it was not already - become common knowledge among the locally-based
Mute clans.  And someone would bring the news to him in the hope of a
reward.  Izo had several trunkfuls of small gifts, some useful, some
decorative, for such occasions.

Wantanabe gazed at the blank sheet of paper before him and continued to
twirl his brush on the ink-block even though it was now fully
charged.

It helped concentrate his mind on the circumstances surrounding the
appearance of the sky-chariots.  The air had been getting progressively
colder over the past two weeks but the sky had been clear, or dotted
with broken cloud.

And that very morning, the rising sun had warmed an empty sky.  It was
only later that a line of grey cloud had appeared on the northern
horizon.

The two sky-chariots had approached from the north-east and had flown
over the mooring in a south-westerly direction - back towards the
Miz-Hippy.

Which meant they must have either circled round from the north or round
from the south - driven back towards the iron snake by the advancing
snowcloud.  But before that, they would have been flying across a clear
sky - so their course would have been observed by the sharp-eyed Mutes
who occupied the lands around Lake Mi-shiga.

Perhaps his nearest neighbour, Saito Aichi, the resident agent at
Ludington whose house-boat lay one hundred and twenty miles north of
his own, had seen them crossing Lake Mi-shiga while the windswept
blanket of snow was still beyond the far shore.  Hhhaaawww!

Cloud-warrior was an apt name for men bold enough to drive their winged
chariots over such a huge expanse of water!  But if they were ever rash
enough to invade the sacred sky-world above Ne-Issan, the karni who
guarded the heavens would send them crashing to earth like birds struck
by a hunter's arrows.

Izo decided to pen a message slip that would be delivered to his
neighbour by carrier pigeon.  He would have to wait for the snow storm
to pass, but if the bird could be released by noon, he might have a
reply the following day that could help him pinpoint the location of
the wagon-train.  On the other hand, if the sky-chariots had circled
round from the south, word of their sighting would take longer to reach
him.  But it would come - of that he had no doubt.

The high-born half-caste had made full use of his organizing skills
since arriving in the outlands, putting his greatest effort into the
area south and west of Benton Harbour.  As a result, there were few
grass-monkeys within a hundred miles of where he now sat who did not
know of the rewards to be gained by being the first to report the
sighting of an iron snake or an arrowhead.

Selecting a smaller, much finer brush, Izo Wantanabe took a narrow slip
of thin paper from a leather folder and began to compose his message to
Saito.  A string of tiny ideograms - the symbols the Iron Masters used
instead of the roman alphabet - flowed effortlessly from the tip of his
brush.

For 'Buffalo Bill' Hartmann, commander of The Lady from Louisiana, the
word came in the form of a coded radio signal at 0625 hours Mountain
Standard Time, some ten minutes before sunrise on the 12th November
2990.  Hartmann was just easing himself out of his bunk when the
VidCommTech on the red-eye shift triggered the soft alarm bleeper in
the headboard by his pillow.  He looked across at the VDU above the
small desk built into a corner of his private quarters and saw the
screen fill rapidly with line after line of five letter code-blocks.

Hartmann's wagon-train, which had halted overnight seventy-six miles
south of the Pueblo way-station, had been following a trail - once
known as Highway 25 - that led down through navref point Trinidad and
Raton, New Mexico and across the Canadian River before turning west to
Roosevelt Field, the underground divisional base situated close to the
long-vanished city of Santa Fe.

Because the Federation maps of the overground were based on
pre-Holocaust editions, urban areas, state lines and major highways had
been retained as navigational reference points.  So although the main
part of the base was several hundred feet below ground, it was known by
its composite title - Roosevelt/Santa Fe.

There were ten such bases buried deep within the earth shield under or
near major cities of the southern mid-west, the majority named after
past Presidents of the United States: the headquarters of the
Federation, Washington/Houston - known informally as 'Grand Central' or
Houston/GC, Johnson-Phoenix, Reagan/ Lubbock, Nixon/Ft.  Worth,
Eisenhower/San Antone, Truman/Lafayette, Le May/Jackson, Lincoln/Little
Rock and Grant/Tulsa.  The latest, still under construction, was
Monroe/Wichita.

These cities had vanished too, leaving only their names on the maps
stored in the Federation's computer archives.  Names which helped to
soften the grey anonymity of the massive slab-sided constructions that
had taken their place.  The bunkers, which hugged the earth like a
cubist sculptor's vision of a beached jellyfish, were the interface
between the underground world of the Federation and the Blue-Sky World
above.

Like the network of smaller way-stations and work-camps, they were
artefacts of the third millennium.

Some dated back to the early part of the twenty-fourth century; beyond
that very few traces of human habitation remained.  All outward signs
of the twentieth century had disappeared - vaporised by nuclear
explosions or razed to the ground in the internecine struggles between
crazed groups of survivors for control of uncontaminated resources in
the immediate post-Holocaust period.

The shattered ruins, the ransacked shells and anything left standing by
the gangs of looters had been slowly destroyed by wind and rain, storms
and hurricanes and the relentless passage of time.  But despite being
dealt an almost mortal blow, the planet had endured; had begun to heal
itself.

Unchecked for over nine hundred years, nature had reasserted its
eternal supremacy over the transient, insubstantial works of humankind,
grinding concrete into dust, and covering the piles of fallen bricks
and forlorn debris with a shifting layer of sand or a carpet of red
grass.

Like the Santa Fe interface towards which Commander Hartmann was
travelling, the wagon-train under his command was also an artefact of
the third millennium.

Built in 2961, The Lady from Louisiana - known to its crew as The Lady
- was an armoured land-train that stood over thirty feet high and
measured a staggering nine hundred feet from end to end when fitted
with its full complement of sixteen wagons.

This was the mobile home for a thousand TrailBlazers - men and women
who ate, showered, slept, fought and died alongside each other during
the nine months of each year that the wagon-train spent on overground
operations.  They also used the same toilets, and it had been that way
since the Holocaust.  To date, the President-General had always been a
man, and generations of women had served as guard-mothers to his
children, but apart from these two immutable functions there was no
discrimination on the basis of gender.  In the Federation, men and
women enjoyed total equality of status and opportunity from
pipe-cleaning in the A-Level sewage farms to the top executive suite in
the Black Tower and in front-line combat against the Mutes.

Each wagon, which was linked to its neighbour by a flexible passway,
was fifty-five feet long by thirty feet wide, with room inside for
three decks, and it was supported at each end by two pairs of giant
drum-shaped low-pressure tyres, twelve feet high and twelve feet
wide.

Hartmann sat in 'the saddle', the top deck of the forward command
car.

This was like the bridge of a

1!

pre-H naval frigate and below it was the wagon-train's version of the
ship's fire/command control center.

Hartmann's deputy, It.  Commander Cooper had charge of a second
duplicate command car at the tail of the wagon-train which meant that,
in tactical terms, there was no front or rear.  The Lady could go back
and forwards with equal facility or split up into two independently
manouverable segments - a ploy that had often thrown attacking Mute
clans into confusion.

The wagon mix could be modified depending on whether The Lady was on a
supply run to way-stations or on a firesweep.  In combat configuration,
the train would haul ten 'battle-wagons' equipped with multi-barrelled
gun turrets along the top and sides, a 'blood-wagon' crewed by a team
of combat medics headed by Surgeon-Captain Keever and a flight-car
which housed the wagon-train's own airforce - ten Skyhawk Mark I's, the
single-seat delta-winged microlite whose production centenary had been
celebrated in 2983.

The flight car had an extra-wide flat roof which acted as a
mini-runway.  With throttles wide open, the Skyhawks were launched into
the air from angled steam catapults and 'landed on' with the aid of an
attester hook just like the carrier planes of the twentieth century.

Due to their interior layout, the flight-car and power-cars carried
fewer guns than the others.  It was the command cars and
'battle-wagons' that, quite literally, bristled with weaponry - body
heat sensors, night-scopes and infra-red laser ranging devices.

Like the submarine and long-range bomber crews in the last big war of
the pre-Holocaust era, TrailBlazers lived surrounded by their equipment
and weapons.

Stores and ammunition were stowed in underfloor and overhead
compartments, bunks folded down and were shared by day and night-duty
personnel and, like the submarines of the Old Time, there were no
portholes.

Narrow vision-slits could be uncovered in an emergency but under normal
conditions, batteries of video screens displayed what lay outside.

The wagon-train was a sealed environment, shielded against the
radiation that still fouled the Blue-Sky World, and the air that
circulated inside them was carefully and constantly filtered.  In the
nine centuries since the Holocaust conditions had improved but
Trail-Blazers were still pulling 'tricks' - a slang term based on the
acronym TRIC - Terminal Radiation-Induced Cancer.

According to the First Family, it was the subhuman Mutes who were
responsible for the sickness in the air.

And everyone knew that to be true because they weren't affected by
it.

Mutes had poisonous skins which, if touched with bare hands, caused the
flesh of ordinary human beings to rot, and they exuded noxious
chemicals which contaminated the atmosphere.

Any Tracker breathing unfiltered air was at risk.  Even if they were
not killed in combat, Trail-Blazers knew that a nine-month tour on
overground operations could shorten their already brief lives by
several years but that was a sacrifice they made without hesitation.

'They died so that others might live' was a phrase imprinted daily on
every Tracker's consciousness from the age of two onwards, and the
words were carved into the Memorial Walls to be seen in the central
plazas of each divisional base.  They could also be found painted in
giant letters along corridors, galleries, the tunnel walls facing the
platforms of subway stations, and the radials and ringways linking the
network of accommodation deeps.

You had to be blind and deaf not to get the message for it was
regularly screened during programme breaks on the nine tv channels
piped through the Federation and was often included in voice-over
station identification announcements, along with a clutch of other
homilies issued by the First Family.

'They died so that others might live'.  Yay, brother.

Amen to that...

Although prolonged exposure to overground radiation was still regarded
as life-threatening, the level had been falling at a steadily
increasing rate over the last few decades.  This was entirely due to
the dramatic reduction in the numbers of Southern Mutes whose presence
had infected the mid-western states now cleansed and reclaimed by the
Federation - Texas, Arizona, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana
and Mississippi, plus the New Territories of Colorado and Kansas.

That was a big chunk of territory and required constant policing.

Most of the Southern Mutes who had not been killed or enslaved had been
driven towards the east and west coasts and down into the desert wastes
of Mexico.  A few marauding bands roamed the Outer States looking for
easy pickings like scavenging crows but they did their best to avoid
contact with patrolling wagon-trains and had become adept at concealing
themselves from the circling Skyhawks whose presence announced the
imminent arrival of one of the feared iron snakes.

The present threat to the Federation's plan to reconquer the Blue-Sky
World was to be found in the New Territories and the vast rolling
plains beyond.  The Northern Mutes, who called themselves the
Plainfolk, were proving a tougher proposition than their southern
relatives.  Raised to fight and die with the same dedication as the
Trackers, they possessed animal cunning, incredible physical endurance
and suicidal courage.  Fortunately, they were illiterate savages locked
into a nomadic, hand-to-mouth existence, and armed with primitive
weapons - knives, clubbing axes and crossbows.

Welded into a cohesive force under a shrewd, informed leader, they
might have found ways to neutralise the superior technology and
fire-power of the wagon-trains but time and destiny were ranged against
them.  Despite their collective name, the Plainfolk clans had no sense
of nationhood and were as keen to fight each other as they were to
fight the Federation.

After rolling out of Nixon/Fort Worth in early March for a run of
stateside patrols, The Lady had spent the summer roaming the central
plains - Kansas, Nebraska and South Dakota where her crew had helped
reduce the level of air pollution even further by racking up a
body-count of seven hundred and twenty-nine lump-heads.

Some were children but, as old Trail-Blazers were often heard to say: '
. . . the little 'uns grow up to be as big, mean and bug-ugly as the
bucks an' beavers who reared 'em..."  Harsh but plain commonsense.  By
taking out the young and the child-rearing females, you effectively
neutered the clan.  And more often than not, their deaths often goaded
the surviving male and female warriors into launching suicidal attacks
against TrailBlazer combat squads sent out from the wagon-train.

Hartmann's crew had taken some casualties but, all in all, it had been
a successful tour, in marked contrast to The Lady's first, catastrophic
encounter with a strong force of Mutes in Wyoming, the previous year.

On his return to the depot, Hartmann and his executive officers had
been brought before a Board of Assessors to face a charge of recklessly
endangering their train.

It was accepted that lump-heads might kill TrailBlazers, but they were
not supposed to damage wagon-trains or outwit their commanders.  With
only twenty-one currently in service and a present production rate of
one a year the wagon-trains were the most precious item in the
Federation's inventory.  The Lady's execs experienced a few bad
moments, but in the end, everyone had gotten away with a severe
reprimand and the loss of a year's seniority.

It could have been a lot worse.  Hartmann had a shrewd idea why things
had gone so wrong, but like all experienced hands, had not attempted to
defend himself by telling the truth.  To have suggested that the
wagon-train and its crew had run up against the malevolent powers of a
Mute summoner would have gotten him into real trouble.  Mute magic
something which many overground veterans accepted as a proven fact was
a taboo subject within the Federation.

The Manual, the video-archive containing the received wisdom of the
First Family and the Behavioural Codes which governed the lives of
Trackers from cradle to grave contained a cryptic reference to past
allegations of 'Mute magic' and the Family's final word on the
subject.

Officially, it did not exist.  The mere mention of it was a Code One
offence.  If you were caught, or reported to the Provos and
subsequently charged, no plea of mitigation could be allowed.  Anyone
found guilty of a Code One infraction was guaranteed a one-way ticket
to the wall.

This time, the homecoming would be different.  The Lady had fallen
short of the 1000-kill target that would have earned it a unit citation
but after subtracting the time wasted on supply runs, 729 was still a
respectable total.  And there was always the chance they might nail
down the odd clutch of Mute escapees or raiders on the way back to
Nixon/Fort Worth.

Despite their poisonous presence, a number of Mutes from the decimated
southern clans were used in the overground work-camps.  They were
supposed to be chained down at night but sometimes, through sloppy
security or outside help, they went over the wire.

Escapees were usually unarmed but it always made the home run
interesting and Hartmann sometimes sent his men out after 'phantom'
targets to keep them on their toes.  Experience had taught him that it
was when you were rolling with the hatches battened down and your feet
up that the unexpected happened.

And it was a bit like that today.  When decoded and screened, the
TAC-OPS signal from CINC-TRAIN in Grand Central put an end to
Hartmann's thoughts of celebrating New Year with his kinfolk in
Eisenhower/ San Antonio.  The.  Lady was ordered to change course
immediately and head east, towards navref Kansas City.

After crossing the Missouri, he was to take the wagon-train north
through Des Moines, Iowa then east along the old US Highway 80 to Cedar
Rapids.  The Lady was to make the 1200-mile journey without the
customary night halts and he was to ignore any targets of opportunity
en route.  On arrival at Cedar Rapids, he was to launch his Skyhawks on
a search and rescue mission across the Mississippi.

The order to head north so late in the year with snow already falling
on the lower slopes of the Rockies came as an unwelcome surprise.

Winter was the period set aside for rest and refit.  Hartmann would not
normally have expected to be called topside until March for supply runs
and security sweeps inside the Federation.  And when he got to the part
of the signal which told him who he was supposed to be looking for, he
got an even bigger surprise.

Hartmann keyed the signal into the Command Log the hard disk whose
memory could only be accessed by a combination of his own ID-card and
voiceprint - then screened himself through to the Duty RadCommTech and
told him to send the standard IMMEDIATE ACTION response to Fort
Worth.

Having received the signal, the radio operator knew its time and
reference coordinates, but at this point, no one, apart from Hartmann,
was aware of its contents.

Leaving his quarters, he roused his Navigation Exec and told him about
the course change they were to make at Trinidad instead of rolling down
to Santa Fe.

Hartmann also told him he planned to wait until they had covered the
ten miles to the turnoff point before breaking the news to the rest of
the crew.

Leaving the NavExec to draw up a new route and schedule based on a
three-shift roll, Hartmann returned to his own quarters.  CINC-TRAIN'S
message had contained a third surprise that would be greeted with equal
dismay by The Lady's passengers - Colonel Marie Anderssen, commander of
the Pueblo way-station, and sixty-four officers and men from her
1000-strong assault pioneer battalion who, prior to CINC-TRAIN's
signal, had been expecting to be off-loaded at the Santa Fe
interface.

The steely-grey lady colonel, referred to by her subordinates as
Mary-Ann, had been summoned to Grand Central to attend a Forward
Planning Review Board.  And travelling with her were a mixed bag of
officers and other ranks; soldiers, technicians and construction
workers heading south for their first stateside leave after two years
up the line.

For some of her party, the journey home would have ended with the
fifteen-hundred-foot ride down in the elevator to Level One-1 of
Roosevelt Field and its centrepiece, New Deal Plaza; the remainder,
whose kinfolk were quartered in other divisional bases, were due to
catch the shuttle at the subway station immediately below New Deal
Plaza.  After trading a few credits for a hot meal or a session on one
of the range of video battle or proficiency quiz games in the Plaza's
recreation arcade they would have trooped aboard the Trans-Am Express
for a 120 mile an hour journey through the earth shield.  A few hours
later they too would have been home.

But now all that had changed.  The digital wall clock was marking up
the last seconds towards 0705 when Hartmann re-entered his private
quarters.  As commander of the wagon-train he was allocated more
personal space than anybody else but it was still severely limited.

Service protocol and simple courtesy required him to share his quarters
with Colonel Anderssen and the designers had thoughtfully provided an
extra fold-down bunk for such occasions.

Since there was only just enough room for one, it meant even less room
for two.  This called for a certain amount of coordination between host
and guest, but on this trip it was not a problem.  Hartmann and
Anderssen were already well acquainted.

They had been classmates at the MacArthur Military Academy and had both
graduated summa cum laude.  Anderssen's posting to the Pioneer Corps
who built and manned the way-stations caused them to lose touch for
several years but both had moved with equal speed up the promotion
ladder and with Hartmann's appointment as commander of a wagon-train it
was only a matter of time before their paths crossed again.

In the intervening period, Hartmann had filed bond papers with Lauren,
a young woman from a third generation Trail-Blazer family.  A few
months later, they were notified that she had been selected as a
'guard-mother'.  They had gotten along fine from the moment they had
been formally introduced and were looking forward to rearing the child
but someone at the Life Institute had fouled up and Lauren had died two
months after implantation of the microscopic embryo the fruit of the
President-General's seed.

Trackers were conditioned from birth to accept the loss of their
kinfolk with a fatalistic shrug.  Grief was permissible and in extreme
cases counselling was available but you were expected to purge it in
private.

Death was to be viewed as a victory, not a disaster, which meant
Hartmann had received notification of the event but no explanation.

His partner's death through negligence - for which no one was ever
called to account - left a sour taste and discouraged him from entering
into another officially approved relationship.

Since he was not predisposed to jack up everything within sight
Hartmann had opted for celibacy, contenting himself in off-duty hours
with advanced video study-programs and the fraternal company of his
fellow-officers.  But whenever The Lady had been detailed to make a
Supply run to Pueblo that entailed a night stop-over, he had quartered
with his former class-and bunk-mate MaryAnn.

And now and then, despite the tight-lipped disapproval of Mary-Ann's
dark-haired sidekick, Major Jerri Hiller, they would cast aside the
burden of command and put the horse between the shafts.  They told each
other it was just for old time's sake but they both knew there was more
to it than that.

Anderssen poked her glistening head around the edge of the shower
curtain as he came in.  'Hi..."  She watched him lock the door and
switch on the 'DO NOT ENTER' sign.  'You look as if you've got
something to tell me."

'I have."  Hartmann screened himself through to his deputy.

It.  Commander Cooper's face appeared on the VDU.

'Morning, skipper."

'Morning, Coop.  I've got some items that are going to keep me busy for
the next twenty minutes, so I'd be obliged if you'd get The Lady
underway.  CINC-TRAIN had ordered a course change and a three-shift
roll.  Tell Mr McDonnell to bring the section chiefs to the saddle at
0730.  I want you and the rest of my staff there too."

'Very good, skipper."  Cooper paused.  'Sounds serious."

'Well, I don't think anyone's gonna feel like dancin' "Turkey in the
Middle",' said Hartmann.  'But keep this under your hat till I go on
the air - okay?"

'Will do... ' Hartmann blanked the screen and put the VDU into text and
sound mode.  He then stripped off the olive-drab tee-shirt he wore when
sleeping and approached the shower with his thumbs inside the waistband
of his matching boxer shorts.  'Mind if I join you?"

Anderssen opened up the curtain, revealing the now familiar lines of
her firm, thirty-six-year-old body.  'Be my guest..."

Hartmann stepped into the shower cubicle.  There was no way two people
could stand under the spray head without their bodies touching in
several interesting places - but that was something they'd long been
accustomed to.  At the Academy, male and female recruits shared the
same sleeping quarters and bathroom facilities which included communal
shower blocks with units that could house four at a time - or six good
friends.

Hartmann pumped some soap out of the dispenser and worked up a
lather.

He hadn't joined Mary-Ann in the shower because he was feeling horny.

When the water was running, it was the only place in the wagon-train
you could talk without anyone being able to listen in.

Hartmann had no firm proof that the train was bugged but he had not
reached the rank of commander without discovering that careless talk
could, on occasion, cost lives.

'Want me to scrub your back?"

'Yeah, why not..."  Hartmann faced the wall.

Anderssen went to work with both hands.  'It's my back you're supposed
to be doing."

'Don't worry, I'll get there.  We usually manage this twice a year.

Twice in one week arouses all kinds of unhealthy appetites."

'It's the wrong time and the wrong place, honeybun.

Listen.  CINC-TRAIN just came through.  The Lady's not going home.  Not
yet, anyway."

Anderssen's hands kept moving.  'So how do I get to Santa Fe?"

'We're going to fly you there."

'Bill, be serious.  I'venever flown in one of those stick and string
contraptions and I don't intend to start now."

'Yeah, well, I'm under orders from CINC-TRAIN and while you're on The
Lady, you do as I say.  Which means you've got about forty-three
minutes to get used to the idea."

'Bastard... ' Anderssen tweaked his buttocks with iron hard fingers but
Hartmann, anticipating a revenge attack, had already firmed them up so
it didn't hurt too much.

'C'mon, Mary-Ann.  Ease up.  A few puffs of the stuff you keep hidden
away and you won't feel a thing."

'Great idea but I never carry it around - especially to Grand
Central.

But never mind that, just where the hell am I gonna sit?  If you think
I'm going to let myself be zipped into one of those buddy-frames you
can forget it!"  Anderssen's voice softened as Hartmann eased himself
around.  She smiled up at him as their loins came into contact.

Hartmann made himself comfortable.  'Don't worry CINC-TRAIN already
thought of that.  One of those two-seat Skyriders is coming out from
Santa Fe."

'Oh, dandy..."

'Hey - snap to it!  You got a reputation to keep up.

Don't they call you the Iron Lady?"

'Yeah.  But that's when I've got my feet on the ground."

'Look, it's a hundred and seventy-two miles by road.

By air, it won't take more than an hour and a half.  All you've gotta
do is hang tough for ninety minutes.  You telling me you can't handle
that?"

'How was it with you the first time?"

Hartmann responded, tongue-in-cheek.  'I'm still waiting for someone to
offer me a ride."  He silenced her protest with a quick kiss.  'Listen,
if it starts getting to you, just close your eyes, lay back and think
of--' Anderssen's firm thighs put the squeeze on his brace and bit.

'Don't say anything you might regret, Billy-boy... ' Hartmann pinned
her arms inside his and locked his wrists against the base of her
spine.  'You're right,' he said.  'This is no time to be kidding
around.  Do you realize we've only six good years left - maybe eight,
if we're lucky?"  He sighed.  'Wish I was going with you .  . .

Anderssen didn't resist as he pulled her even closer.

She laid her head under his chin as they rocked gently from side to
side under the raying jets of warm water.

'Do you still miss Lauren?"

'Not as much as I'm going to miss you."

Anderssen slid her arms around his waist.  'Where are you headed?"

'Cedar Rapids, Iowa... ' 'Never heard of it."

'It's about twelve hundred miles north-west of here.

On the same latitude as Chicago."

'Christo!  Doesn't it snow up there at this time of year?"

'So they tell me."

'Must be pretty important for them to risk sending you that far
north.

Do you have any backup?"

'Not that I know of."

'So what's the bottom line - or haven't they told you yet?"

'It's a search and rescue mission.  At least, that's what CINC-TRAIN
calls it.  Five of our people have gone missing up there."  He
shrugged.  'Houston want me to find them and.  bring 'em in."

'Feds...?"

'If they are, they're not going to tell me."

'Feds' was the nickname applied to special undercover agents thought to
be employed by the First Family.  No one had ever come up with any hard
evidence that such people existed but that had not dispelled the
widespread belief that they did.

'The only other kind of people roamin' around out there are breakers.

Apart from FINTEL, of course.  But it's the first time I ever heard of
anyone operating east of the Mississippi."

'Yeah.  The other odd thing is, two of them are winglnen from The Lady
- Jodi Kazan, the flight section leader did five tours with me before
disappearing over the side in a ball of flame.  In that battle I told
you about when we--' 'Ran into some unexpected trouble..."

'Yeah, that one.  The second was a new boy called Brickman.  One of
three we lost before we turned and ran south to lick our wounds.  I've
got nothing on the other three - apart from the fact one's a wingman
but everyone thought Kazan and Brickman were both posted KIA over
Wyoming last June."  Hartmann shrugged.  'It seems we were mistaken."

Anderssen leaned away from her shower-mate.  'This guy Brickman ...

would he happen to be 2102-8902

Steven Roosevelt Brickman?"

'Yeah, that's him.  How d'you know his name and number?"

'Because he's the kind of guy you remember - for all kinds of
reasons."

'But why in particular - and how come?"

'He flew into Pueblo on a wing and a prayer almost a year ago today.

Said he'd escaped after being shot down then captured and held prisoner
by a clan of Mutes--' Hartmann looked surprised.  'Held prisoner?"

'That's what he said.  We radioed The Lady to check that you had a
crewman by that name.  Your Signals Officer obviously didn't tell you
about our query.

Anyway, he confirmed that Brickman was one of three wingmen listed
PD/ET north-east of Cheyenne on June 12th - as the defaulter
claimed."

'Defaulter?"

'It's SOP.  Anyone who comes wandering in from the overground adrift
from his unit and without an ID is automatically regarded as a
potential code-breaker until proved otherwise.  You know that."

'Sure,' grunted Hartmann.  'But up to now, the only breakers I've seen
have been dead ones.  So what was his story?"

'I never got to hear it."  Anderssen dropped her voice right down.

'When we called up Brickman's dope-sheet from Grand Central, it came
prefixed with a Level Nine entry."

'Which only you could read."

'Lucky I did.  Otherwise I might have got my buns roasted.  Your Mr
Brickman is on the Special Treatment List."

The news caused Hartmann's eyebrows to rise.  'Is he?

Well, well, well... Thanks for telling me - although, to be honest, I
can't say it comes as a total surprise.  I always have a one-to-one
word with new crewmen when they come aboard then compare notes with
McDonnell my Trail Boss.  We both had him down as someone who might go
far."

'I know what you mean,' said Anderssen.  'He has that ?.  . look about
him."

Hartmann drew her to him.  'Yeah.  It's the eyes."  He looked deep into
hers.

'So, be careful, huh?"

'You too."  He planted a brotherly kiss on the tip of her nose.  'Okay,
fun's over.  Git outta here."

'Sure... ' Anderssen pushed the curtain aside.  'Just out of interest
do you always wear socks in the shower?"

Hartmann looked down at his olive-drab feet.  'Awww, shee-utt!"  Y'see
what happens when you're around?"  he peeled off the socks and started
to wring them out.

'It might help if you turned the water off."  Marie Anderssen stepped
out of the cubicle and picked up a couple of towels.  She threw one at
Hartmann then started to give herself a vigorous rub-down.  'So what's
the word on the rest of my party?  Are they being flown to Santa Fe
too?  Or do they have to walk it?"

'Neither,' replied Hartmann.  'They're staying aboard."

Mary-Ann stopped drying her hair with one end of the towel as the other
end stalled between her thighs.  'But these guys are--' 'Due three
months leave, yeah.  It's been postponed.

Tough, but that's the way it is.  They'll get home when we do."

'That is outrageous..."  Anderssen cast around for a solution.  'Can't
you drop them off at Monroe/Wichita on your way through?  I know the
interface isn't operational yet but they could ride down the air shaft
that was drilled through the floor of the old way-station."

'We're not going through Wichita.  We've been routed through Great Bend
and Salina.  The terrain is easier to navigate - which means we can
maintain speed during our night-time run."

Anderssen swore violently then vented her frustration on her own body
with an extra-punishing rubdown.

'There must be something we can do!"

'Uh-uh, not so much of the "we".  This is your beef, lion."

Her voice turned sour.  'Thanks, I'll remember that."

'Listen, Marie, I've got my orders.  If you don't like what's
happening, take it up with CINC-TRAIN - when you get to Santa Fe."

'Yeah, sure.  It means going through channels.  Any complaint I make
has got to go all the way up to Pioneer Corps HQ before being sent over
to CINC-TRAIN.  By which time--' '- assuming it ever gets that fan-'
'you'll be out of sight across the Missouri."

'Exactly.  You know the score -just like CINC-TRAIN knew your guys were
hitching a ride home on The Lady.

There was no order to off-load them because no one at Grand Central
gives a shit whether they get home for New Year or not.  All GC cares
about is getting this wagon-train to Cedar Rapids.  Pronto.  So don't
take it out on me."

Anderssen turned away from him, sawed the towel rapidly across her
buttocks and down the back of her legs.

Hartmann didn't need to see her face to know that she would have
preferred to throttle him with it.  Hanging his own towel round his
neck, he fished a clean pair of socks and a set of underwear from one
of the drawers in his clothes cupboard.  He wasn't completely dry but
he now only had four minutes in which to get dressed before he was due
to break the bad news to his execs and section-chiefs - and he did not
relish the prospect.

As a commander who had a genuine interest in the morale and general
well-being of the men serving under him, he could understand Marie
Anderssen being reluctant to abandon her soldiers but he was irritated
to discover that she appeared to be more concerned about them than she
was about him.  In less than thirty minutes she would be flying out,
leaving him with a glum-faced crew and the unwanted problem of coping
for upwards of two months with an extra sixty-four disgruntled
dogfaces.

He zipped up his khaki fatigues and set a yellow baseball cap at the
regulation angle on his head.

Anderssen, now in briefs and T-shirt, was stuffing her belongings into
a trail-bag.  She still had her back to him.

'C'mon, Anderssen - spare me the fire and ice.  This new assignment
CINC-TRAIN has thrown at us is going to be tough on everybody."

As she turned around, the tight line of her mouth twisted into a wry
smile.  'Everybody except me.  You're right.  You're the last person I
should be dumping on.

I'm sorry."

'Don't say sorry.  Just say goodbye."

They hugged each other warmly.  Anderssen raised her face to his.

'Till whenever, huh?"

'Sure.  And don't worry about your guys.  It's not going to be a
joy-ride but I'll do my best to look after 'em."

Their lips met briefly then, as they disengaged reIuctantly, Hartmann
picked up his wristwatch.

'Christo!  I'm late!"  He buckled it on and gripped her shoulder, his
voice now a whisper.  'Listen, this guy Brickman.  Where did he go
after he left you?"

'He was hooded and chained then flown to Santa Fe aboard a Skyrider
from Big Red One and handed over to the Provost-Marshal of New Mexico
for onward transmission to Grand Central.  And GC also ordered us to
erase his name from our station-log."

Hartmann nodded.  'That explains why we were never sent an up-date.  We
still have him listed KIA."

'I don't get it,' breathed Anderssen.  'If he was sent to GC as a
defaulter last November, what the hell is he doing up to his ass in
snow in Iowa?"

'Good question,' said Hartmann.  'But even if I find him, you and I are
never going to know the answer.

Young Mr Brickman is on the Special Treatment List remember?"

CHAPTER TWO

For Steve Brickman, any advantages bestowed upon those selected for
special treatment were, at that precise moment in time, fated to remain
unspecified and dubious.  He certainly had no reason to feel
privileged, except in the negative sense that he and his four
travelling companions had been chosen to be on the receiving end of a
sudden run of bad luck.  Once again, hasty, ill-considered action had
placed him in a situation fraught with difficulty and danger.

Their arrival, before dawn that same day, on the wind-carved dunes of
Long Point, on the western shore of Lake Erie, had marked the end of
the first phase of a perilous escape from Ne-Issan, the eastern lands
over which the Iron Masters held sway.  The second phase, a
fifteen-hundred-mile journey by air to Wyoming lay ahead.  It was this
journey which, after a tense but triumphant start, had gone
disastrously wrong.  Two and a half hours into the flight, Steve had
discovered they were rapidly running out of fuel - and there was worse
to come.

With the help of two Tracker renegades - Jodi Kazan and Dave Kelso
Steve had made good a promise to rescue Cadillac and Clearwater, two
gifted Plainfolk Mutes from the clan M'Call who had fallen into the
hands of the Iron Masters.  The promise had been made to Mr Snow, the
clan's.quirky, ageing wordsmith whose brain acted as the repository for
nine hundred years of oral history.  Mr Snow might be the guardian of
the past and the clan's guiding intelligence but that did not stop him
making mistakes.  It was he who was responsible for sending Cadillac
and Clearwater to Ne-Issan in the first place; a decision he had later
come to regret and which Steve, in a rash moment, had offered to
repair.

But as with most situations Steve found himself in, it was not as
simple as that.  Before making his promise to Mr Snow, Steve had been
recruited into the ranks of AMEXICO - the AMtrak EXecutive Intelligence
COmmando - a top-secret organisation working directly for the
President-General of the Amtrak Federation.  So secret that only a
select handful of the First Family knew of its existence.

Trained as a wingman - the airborne elite of the Federation's
overground strike-force, Steve was now a mexican - a generic term
proudly adopted by AMEXICO operatives along with the use of words and
phrases from the pre-Holocaust language known as spanish; the language
of the long-vanished nation which had once bordered the southern edge
of the Federation and was now the refuge for some of the displaced
clans of Southern Mutes.

Steve's new boss, Commander-General Ben Karlstrom had given him the
same assignment as Mr Snow.  But since he didn't regard Mutes as
people, he had referred to Cadillac and Clearwater as 'targets', and
the word 'rescue' had been replaced by 'capture'.

Mr Snow had also been targeted - to paraphrase Karlstrom - 'for removal
from the equation'.  Steve's mission was to bring all three back to the
Federation alive, or leave their bodies for the death birds.  Or
else.

There had been a veiled threat of punitive sanctions that might be
levied on Steve's kin-sister Roz and his guard-parents, Annie and Poppa
Jack.  The death or ill-treatment of his guard-parents would have
caused him great distress but it was something he could have borne.

It was the threats against Roz that could not be countenanced.

Steve had accepted the assignment because it offered a chance to get
back into the Blue-Sky World where he had time to think and room to
manoeuvre.  Time to think how to rig the board so that everybody got
what they wanted - or were fooled into thinking they had.  He had the
impression that Karlstrom didn't trust him completely.

The feeling was mutual.  In several action-packed months on the
overground, Steve had discovered that the First Family had been lying
to their loyal troops for centuries - perhaps from the very beginning
when the ash-clouds from the firestorms that had swept across America
turned the sun into a chilling, crimson eye for more than three
decades.

But it was not all threats and double-dealing.  When the chips were
down it was Karlstrom who had provided the vital back-up Steve had
needed to blast his way to freedom.  Part of that back-up had been a
fellow-agent code-named Side-Winder disguised as a lump-head with the
aid of plastic surgery.

Side-Winder, who claimed to have been working inside Ne-Issan for
years, had been just part of a baffling set-up that had included some
hard cases from one of the Iron Masters' own intelligence networks.

Steve, unaware of this linkage, had done a separate deal with a
highly-placed samurai from another network, and there were probably
more.  Layer upon layer of deceit and intrigue, like the bland
protective coating that concealed the ultimate truths about the First
Family, the Amtrak Federation and their hereditary enemies, the
Mutes.

The task he had been given by Karlstrom - and had voluntarily
undertaken for Mr Snow - was difficult enough in itself since the
popular belief among Mutes was that no one ever returned from 'the
Eastern Lands'.

But it was made doubly difficult by his feelings for the people he had
been ordered to betray.  Cadillac and Clearwater had revealed
themselves to be 'straight' Mutes, with perfectly formed bodies and
clear, unblemished skins - just like real human beings - which had been
skilfully camouflaged by vegetable dyes to blend with the
multi-coloured hides of their clanfolk.

Mr Snow was afflicted with the characteristic skin and bone deformities
that had caused all Mutes to be labelled 'lump-heads' but he had also
been blessed with an encyclopaedic memory, a piercing intelligence and
a fund of ageless wisdom spiced with his own engaging blend of
mischievous good humour.

Steve's dilemma arose from the fact that he had - to use the time-worn
pre-Holocaust phrase - fallen deeply in love with Clearwater and she
had responded with equal passion.

Raised in the Federation where the word 'love' was not even part of the
vocabulary, Steve had never ex.  perienced this depth of emotional
involvement before.

But he had been extremely close to his kin-sister - closer than two
normal human beings can get.  He and Roz shared a secret telepathic
link of extraordinary intensity that had set them apart from other
Trackers since early childhood and on reaching puberty, she had coaxed
Steve into a covert sexual relationship.

With his posting to the Flight Academy at the age of fourteen this had
gradually broken down due to the long periods of enforced separation.

Roz still felt the same but Steve, the reluctant partner, had moved
on.

With his kin-sister, it was the mental bond that was paramount; his
feelings for Clearwater - which had caused Roz such anguish - were of
an entirely different order.

Those feelings had caused Steve a great deal of soul-searching too.

From the very first days at school he had been taught to regard the
malformed Mutes as repugnant, disease-ridden animals; an insult to
Nature that had to be ruthlessly exterminated.  It therefore followed
that an intimate physical liaison between a Tracker and a Mute was an
unthinkable aberration; the product of a sick mind.  But the attraction
he and Clearwater felt for each other had been instantaneous and
irresistible and, for Steve, the desire to possess her body and soul
had developed into a dangerous obsession.

His bond with Mr Snow and Cadillac was based on a debt of gratitude.

Even though he had taken part in a murderous air raid against their
clan, they had nursed him back to health after a near-fatal crash and
later had saved him from certain death.  Had they been captured by
Trackers, they would have been killed out of hand but these two
so-called savages had shown a degree of forbearance and forgiveness
which he did not deserve.

His feelings for Clearwater had led him to betray their trust but, once
again, there had been no recriminations and he could not bring himself
to betray them a second time.

The Manual made it clear that normal moral considerations did not enter
into the relationship between Trackers and the Mutes.  Despite the
superficial resemblances they were not people, they were
mentally-defective anthropoids whose place on the evolutionary tree was
approximately halfway between human beings and the vanished apes.

Karlstrom, the head of AMEXICO, had told him that 'promises to Mutes
don't count'.  One half of Steve knew that to be true but the other,
newly-awakened half told him it wasn't so.

From the moment he had emerged to make his first solo flight above the
overground a profound change had taken place within him.  He had felt
himself being torn in two.  The solidarity he felt towards his fellow
Trackers, the solemn oath of unswerving loyalty to the First Family
conflicted with the growing feeling that he was not and had never truly
been part of their underground empire.

Entering the Blue-Sky World was like ... coming home.  It defied all
reason but every fibre of his being knew it to be true.

For the moment, however, the crushing burden of these emotional and
mental pressures had been supplanted by the more urgent and fundamental
problem of survival...

Steve, Jodi and Dave Kelso were all skilled pilots but they had never
flown anything as sophisticated as the Skyrider.  The instrument panel
was overloaded with switches, dials and radio navigation aids, plus a
video screen which showed the aircraft's position as a dot on a moving
map which had to be programmed before take-off.  They had been in too
much of a hurry to discover how to do this, and they were also
unfamiliar with the engine which was more powerful and operated on an
entirely different principle to the battery-powered Skyhawks they were
used to.

Steve had twice been a passenger aboard a Skyrider but the first time
he had been too busy talking to the pilot - his late classmate Donna
Monroe Lundkwist; on the second occasion, a night flight with a
taciturn MX pilot who ignored most of his questions, he had spent the
greater part of the trip gazing through the canopy at the star-filled
sky.

Until that morning, Jodi and Kelso had never seen a Skyrider but, like
Steve, they had enough basic savvy to get one off the ground and
manoeuvre it through the air, flying it not with the aid of the
overloaded instrument panel but by the seat of their pants.  The chance
of making a fatal error had been greatly reduced by the provision of an
'idiot board' - an abbreviated list covering the essential control
checks and settings a pilot was required to implement on take-off and
landing.

But the list did not tell them everything they needed to know before
embarking on their journey.  And since they had temporarily immobilized
their guide, SideWinder, and the two MX pilots sent to fly them back to
the Federation, there was no one to tell them the planes were due to be
refuelled for the return flight from a large storage tank buried in the
sandy soil alongside the grass landing strip.

With Jodi's help, Kelso had filled two zipper-bags with food and other
useful items from the beach store before leaving but if Side-Winder had
not revealed its hiding place they would not have known such treasures
lay buried beneath their feet.  Similarly, it did not occur to them
that there might also be a fuel dump.  Even if it had, they would have
been unlikely to discover its location.  Like the beach store with its
cunningly-arranged pebble lid, the access points to the fuel tank were
hidden from unwelcome visitors beneath the weathered stump of a dead
tree whose centre-section could not be unlocked without the aid of a
special tool.

The truth was, they were so pleased at having outwitted the trio sent
to bring them in, the idea that the planes might be short of gas never
entered their heads.  They had only one thought - to get the hell out
of Long Point as fast as possible.

Steve was flying with Clearwater in the passenger seat and Jodi's haul
from the beach store in the cargo bay; Jodi herself was riding with
Kelso and they had Cadillac in the cargo hold plus the second bag of
looted goodies.

Like Jodi and Kelso, Steve had checked the fuel state immediately after
activating the batteries that powered the instrument panel and on-board
systems.  The visual display, which was graduated to show the fuel
state as a percentage gave a reading of 75%.  In the lower half of the
dial there were four small rectangular windows set side by side.  The
first three were red and so was the bottom quarter of the fourth
window; the upper part was white.

Since his mind's eye equated white as neutral and therefore
representing nothingness, Steve assumed, not unreasonably that the
three red markers matched the 75% reading, indicating three full tanks
and one almost empty.  There was a slight problem with the thin red
strip in the bottom quarter-of the fourth window but the fact that 3.25
did not divide neatly into 75% did not ring any alarm bells.  He merely
concluded that a zero per cent reading on the dial left the pilot with
a quarter of a tank to cover those last few miles home before the
engine went dead.

He was wrong all the way down the line.  And Jodi and Kelso, by the
same perverse logic, made the same mistake.  It was almost as if their
brains, not wishing to disappoint their owners, had obligingly
interpreted the observable facts to fit their expectations.

The reverse was true.  The red bar in each rectangle indicated an empty
tank, and the percentage reading applied to the tank currently switched
into the fuel supply system.  The pilots of both Skyriders had flown in
using the fourth, reserve tank and had already used up a quarter of its
contents.

It was only when they were in the air and had been heading west for an
hour and a half that his euphoric mood started to evaporate.  The red
segment in the fourth window was creeping upwards, not downwards and
the needle indicating the percentage of fuel remaining was dropping too
fast.  He said nothing to Clearwater or to Jodi and Kelso - now flying
off his starboard side with their wing tip lined up with his tail but
thirty minutes later, after checking every knob, switch and dial, his
worse fears were confirmed.  The other three fuel tanks were empty.

Shit, shit, and triple shit... I Steve selected the plane-to-plane
channel.  They had maintained-radio silence since leaving Long Point to
prevent any electronic eavesdroppers getting a fix on their position.

With no word from Side-Winder or the two MX pilots for over two hours,
alarm bells would be ringing all over Grand Central and once Karlstrom
found out what had happened - if he didn't know already - the long
knives would be out.  Now was not the time to start broadcasting their
predicament but Steve had no choice; this was a life-threatening
emergency.

'Breaker One to Breaker Two.  What's your fuel state, over?"

Kelso's voice came back through his headset.  'Funny you should ask.

Kaz and I have been trying to work out why we were burning up so much
fuel at the optimum cruising speed and altitude.  We started off with
75% and now we're down to 30."

'I got 37 on the dial,' said Steve.  'That's the good news.  The bad
news is that reading only applies to one tank.  We've been flying on
the reserve since takeoff.

The other three are empty."

'Jeezuss!"  Kelso cursed volubly.  'So how much does the tank hold?

Hang on a minute - Jodi's tryin' to see if there's a vidifax version of
the handling notes stashed somewhere.  You got one?"

'Stay tuned... ' Steve told Clearwater what to look for.  They searched
the cockpit and drew a blank.  'No joy, Dave.  Best thing we can do is
throttle back.  Be careful though.  These things fall out of the sky
below 65.

But if we can burn off less fuel we can maybe extend the mileage."

'By how much?  We're burning it up faster than you are because we got a
bigger load!  Or have you forgotten we're carrying a ratfaced 'coon
skin in the back?"

'Go easy, Dave.  He's wearing a paint-job just like you guys."

'Maybe.  But he ain't the same underneath..."

'Now listen!  Don't start peddling that shit!  We're all in this
together!"

'Yeah, except we aint all in the same airplane!  I'm not happy about
this, Stevie.  Jodi's just shown me the map.

There's a big stretch of water lyin' right cross our line of flight."

'I know.  Lake Michigan.  The far side is the birthplace of the
She-Kargo Mutes.  The ancestral home of our two friends here."

Kelso came back louder than ever.  'What good is that going to do us if
we drown before we get there?!"

'We're not going to!"  cried Steve.  'We can make it!"

'This side or that side - what's the difference?!"  bellowed Kelso.

'We're gonna get our heads sliced off wherever we come down!  I knew it
was too good to be true I' Turning to Jodi, Kelso said: 'Didn't I tell
you that sonofabitch would foul things up for us sooner or later?!"

Jodi, who was studying the video position-plotter and checking
distances on a plasfilm map answered him with her eyes but kept her
mouth shut.

Steve also let it pass.  'Y'know what?  There must have been a fuel
dump at Long Point."

'Brilliant,' sneered Kelso.  'You got any more useless information?!'
Jodi lost her patience.  'Cut it out, Dave!"

They maintained the same course for several minutes in stony silence.

Steve looked across at the other Skyrider and saw Jodi's head bobbing
around as she made another search of the cockpit.  Eventually she held
up a flat rectangular object and waved it triumphantly.

'Breaker Two to Breaker One.  Got it, Steve!"

What Jodi had found was a vidifax, a slim pocket-sized databank
measuring four by eight inches.  The top surface was divided into an
LCD screen and a set of special function keys including a Scroll
command which allowed the viewer to scan blocks of copy by moving them
line by line upwards or downwards across the screen at varying speed.

Jodi selected the main menu, moved into the Fuel menu and found the
information they required.  'Okay ?.  . you there Steve?"

'Breaker One, listening out..."

'The reserve tank holds 30 gallons of fuel.  The optimum burn-off rate
is 1 gallon every 25 miles giving a maximum range of 750 miles---'
Kelso chimed in, 'But we only started with 75% of that."

'I know,' said Jodi.

Steve fed the figures into the small calculator on the low console that
ran out from the instrument panel to a point midway between the two
seats.  'That still gives us a range of 525 miles."

'Hang on.  Don't get excited."  said Jodi.  'That burn-off rate only
applies to an unloaded Skyrider with pilot only and no fuel in other
tanks.  We got some more figuring to-' Kelso exploded.  'Well get to
it, Kaz!  The needle on this dial is heading down towards the 20%
mark."

Jodi let him have it.  'Dave, for chrissakes gimme a break!  You sound
like a jackal whining after a bitch on heat."

'We're close to 29,' said Steve.  'But that doesn't mean anything if
we don't know how far we've travelled."

'I think I can answer that.  I managed to get this mapping screen
working a while back.  We're coming up to navref point Grand Rapids.

That means, lessee .  . .

we've travelled 312 miles so far."

'Thanks.  I'll get back to you."  Steve began to button in the
numbers.

Jodi passed the map over to Kelso.  'Check how far it is from Grand
Rapids to navref Milwaukee..."  Her fingers darted over the
calculator.

After a short while, Steve came back on the air.  'Got it.  The
burn-off rate is one gallon every 22 miles.  If this 29% reading is
accurate, we can cover another 195 miles.

How about you?"

'Not too good, Steve.  With our extra loading we're only doing 18.9
miles to the gallon.  There's only six left in the tank.  According to
the calculator, that's 113.5 miles.  But that doesn't take into account
this headwind we got blowing up our nose."

Steve glanced at his folded map.  'We still got a chance.

Lake Michigan is only 80 miles across."

Kelso's voice ricochetted round the inside of his skull.

'We aint got to Lake Michigan, you dickhead!  Look at your frigging
map!  We're just comin' up on Grand Rapids.  That's a hundred an'
twelve miles from Milwaukee!  Look out the windshield!  That's a fuggin
ocean out there!  You seriously expect me and Kaz to try and cross that
with maybe just enough gas for one hundred and thirteen?!

'What d'you want me to do?!"  shouted Steve.  'Jettison fuel so I've
got the same chance as you?  Get your brain into gear, Dave!  We're
eight thousand feet up.  If the motor cuts, you can glide another ten,
maybe fifteen miles."

'Oh, really?  The man who didn't know he was flying with empty tanks is
now the expert on Skyriders!  If you think I'm flying out over that
stretch of water just to find out if this thing glides like a fuggin
brick you got another think comin'!  I want grass under my wheels when
the juice runs out.  Me and Kaz are headin' south!"

Steve dropped back and closed in until they were flying with wingtips
almost touching.  He looked across at Jodi Kazan who sat blocking his
view of Kelso.  'Jodi, for crissakes!  Can't you do something?!"

She drew her right hand swiftly across her throat - the signal used to
tell pilots to cut the motor and which was also employed to indicate
the abandonment of a fruitless situation or discussion.  'I think he's
right, Steve.  Have you seen what's up ahead?"

'Yeah,' said Kelso.  'Check the weather at two o'clock!"

Steve switched his eyes from Jodi to the northwest quarter of the
sky.

The long grey bank of cloud that had been poised ominously on the
horizon had begun to move while his attention had been diverted by his
lengthy investigation of the crowded instrument panel, the search for
the vidifax and the calculations of the plane's fuel consumption.  The
cloud mass was now angling in rapidly across their front.

Clearwater levelled a finger at the ragged ash-grey wall of cumulus.

'Look!  It carries the White Death in its belly!"

She was right.  It was a snow cloud whose front edge stretched out of
sight in both directions and whose lumpy top layer rose, in places, to
almost double their present altitude.

Jodi spoke into the mike fitted to her borrowed crash helmet.  'We're
gonna have to run ahead of this, Stevie.

It must stretch from here to South Dakota.  On the fuel we got left
we're not gonna be able to climb over it and flyin' through it ain't
gonna do us no good either.  If we end up being forced to land in what
the good ole boys call a 'white-out' we could be in all kinds of
trouble."

'We're in trouble whatever we do,' grunted Kelso.

'This is as far as we go, Kaz."  Easing back the throttle, he pushed
the control column forwards and over to the left and dived under
Steve's tail.

Steve caught an over-the-shoulder glimpse of the Skyrider as it slid
beneath him.  He banked to the left and saw it reappear in front of
him.  He cursed quietly and stabbed the transmit button.  'Breaker One
to Breaker Two.  What's your new heading?"

'Just follow my ass, Brickman!"  shouted Kelso.  'I'm aimin' for the
southeast corner of the lake.  We can head west from there!"  His eyes
met Jodi's.  'Providin' this goddamn weather doesn't beat us to it!"

He held the nose down and pushed the throttle wide open.  'What a
pisser!"

Jodi didn't say anything.  She'd been here before.

Swallowing his anger, Steve piled on the speed in an effort to catch up
with Kelso.  He knew they were obliged to change course but he was
annoyed at having lost control of the situation.  Kelso had played his
part in the breakout from the Heron Pool but he had been nothing but
trouble from Day One.

When you were in the kind of jam they were in, the one thing you didn't
need were guys who were constantly back-biting instead of coming up
with positive answers.

Jodi's long-suffering attitude had no doubt grown out of comradeship
born in adversity but Steve's patience was wearing thin.  He mentally
gave Kelso one more chance to shape up.  If not, the red-headed
loud-mouth would find himself surplus to requirements - and Jodi would
have to decide whether to stick with a loser or join the winning
team.

He looked across at Clearwater and saw she had become tense and
withdrawn.  She sat hunched up in her seat, one hand braced against the
side of the cockpit, the other on the centre console.

Steve laid his left hand over it and gave a reassuring squeeze.  'Hey,
hey, relax!  A little while back you were enjoying this.  What's the
matter?  You not feeling too good?"

Her lips tightened, then she said: 'I do not understand these things
you talk about.  Only that something is wrong and that there is much
anger between you.  Cadillac should have come with us.  The two
sand-burrowers would then have been free to go where they wished."

'You're right.  Would have made things a lot simpler.

The idea was to split the risk so that - if this plane, or Kelso's,
powered down, one of you might still have a chance of getting home."

Her gaze steadied and her mouth relaxed a little.  'We will all get
home.  Were we not born in the shadow of Talisman?"

'You and Cadillac maybe.  I don't think he's too bothered about the
rest of us.  Don't worry about Kelso, Jodi and I will straighten him
out.  He's one of these people who only feels happy when he's
complaining.  But his heart's in the right place."

And if l find it isn't, I'll put a hole in it...

Clearwater put out her right hand for Steve to take hold of again.  'I
fear the White Death."

'You?"  The idea made Steve laugh.  'C'mon!  You're not frightened of
anything!  You and Cadillac have seen more of this stuff than any of
us!  Kelso's lived through three winters, Jodi's survived one.  It's me
who should be worried!'

'And are you?"

'Naahh... I've got you, haven't I?  Trust me.  It'll all come out right
in the end."

'Yes, I know,' said Clearwater.  'Even if you and I don't live to see
it."

With the need to keep his eyes fixed on the plane ahead, Steve was not
able to examine her face and gauge just what she meant by that cryptic
remark.  But it was not the first.

Sensing she had unsettled him, she added, 'I do trust you.  My life has
been placed in your hands.  It is the will of Talisman."

Steve checked the weather to his right then brought his eyes back onto
Kelso's plane.  'Why do we always have to keep coming back to that
goddamn prophecy?

Just for once it'd be nice to think I had something to do with the way
you feel."

'But you do, golden one.  You do..."

'Yeah... ' Steve stared straight ahead.  It must be great, he thought
to have someone you could rely on.

Someone who genuinely cared, who did all the worrying, all the figuring
out, and made sure nothing bad happened to you.  Why was it he who
always seemed to end up carrying everybody else?

Perhaps that was the way it was for people who liked running the
show.

But Jefferson the 31st, the current President-General - who he'd met
ran the greatest show on earth.  You could bet your last meal credit he
didn't give a damn about anybody lower down the wire.

Including Steven Roosevelt Brickman.  You could see it in the eyes.

Jefferson was the kind of guy who could walk you all the way to the
revolving door to his office, a smile on his lips, fatherly hand on
your shoulder - knowing that the hit-squad he'd ordered was waiting for
you to step out of the turnstile.

Pure naked power ... At the level the P-G was operating on, it must
give you a real buzz .  . .

As the two planes lost height, the grey wall of cloud began to tower
over them like a giant tidal wave that threatened to swallow them
without trace.  The strong north-westerly wind that provided its motive
power was driving the snowflakes forward from its leading edge as they
fell in their countless millions.

Steve glanced at the gyro compass.  He was currently tailing Kelso on a
heading of two zero zero.  They had lost altitude steadily and were now
down to nine hundred feet.  It was clear that Kelso wanted to maintain
visual contact with the ground; a wise decision in the circumstances
but if they were to avoid being engulfed they would soon have to swing
onto a more southerly heading.

He consulted his map and tried to find a matching feature on the lake
shore beneath.  And then it happened.  As his left index finger edged
over the folded sheet of plasfilm towards navref Benton Harbour, map
and ground coincided and he glimpsed the squat, rectangular outlines of
a boat moored to a wooden jetty.

It was not one of the massive wheelboats that visited the trading post,
but it was still of appreciable size, with a paddle wheel running
across the full width of the stern.

Colour and detail faded rapidly beneath the first wash of snow.  In
perfect visibility, Steve might have seen the upturned face of the
figure standing on the bow deck as a pale dot set against the dark
wooden planks but not today.  Izo Wantanabe saw the two Skyriders pass
overhead but those aboard did not see him.

Steve didn't need to.  There was only one place the boat could have
come from - Ne-Issan.  The Iron Masters had put it there, and had built
the square jetty to which it was moored.  Its positioning far beyond
the present borders of Ne-Issan must have taken place several weeks, if
not months, ago.  The boat and its invisible crew could only.belong to
domain-lord Yama-Shita; it was his family who held the exclusive
licence to trade with the Mutes.  But Yama-Shita had been dead for a
week - killed by Clearwater during the break-out.  Did his minions down
there know that?  Or know that his assassins had escaped?

Steve thought it unlikely, even though the Iron Masters used carrier
pigeons for urgent long-distance communication.  The Yama-Shita family
were probably still reeling from the shock and were more likely to be
concerned with fighting off bids from envious rivals anxious to grab a
slice of their trading empire than alerting their front men in the
outlands.  For the moment, anyway.

No.  The real question was more basic: Why would a boatload of Japs be
moored near the southern end of Lake Michigan in the second week of
November?  Had Hiro Yama-Shita got some kind of extended operation
going with the Plainfolk Mutes in this area?

The need to press onwards, ahead of the advancing snow made detailed
observation impossible but Steve had not seen any on-shore
installations out of his side of the cockpit, and neither had
Clearwater.  The boat's occupants might be armed but they were sitting
ducks.

Steve toyed momentarily with the agreeable notion of capturing it and
making a slow but stately progress to the trading post at Du-aruta.

They would be assured of absolute safety at sea, coming ashore only for
timber to feed the boiler - the source of power and warmth.  The
problem of what to eat could be solved by catching fish like the Iron
Masters did.

Winter would give way to the time of the New Earth.

Freed from the grip of its icy fingers the soil would burst open as the
buried seeds awoke.  New pink grass would put a warm blush on the face
of the world and as the air softened with the approach of spring they
would linger off Du-aruta until the M'Call delegation joined the other
Plainfolk emissaries near the end of May for the annual round of
trading with the Iron Masters.  Then, before the massive three-storeyed
wheelboats steamed into view, they would beach their stolen vessel in
full view of the waiting Mutes.

Steve pictured the faces of the Plainfolk as he lead his party
ashore.

Yes ... a lot better than walking to Wyoming.  And if Kelso got lippy
he'd end up tied to the paddle wheel .  . .

'Steve!!"

Clearwater's cry snapped him out of his reverie.  Kelso's Skyrider had
disappeared.  Visibility was now zero.  The cockpit was surrounded by
driving snow.

Steve rolled the Skyrider to the left, held the nose down and slammed
the throttle wide open.  The snow started to thin, then fell behind as
they outfaced the bank of cloud.

He knew they had gained only a temporary respite.  The only way to
avoid it was by flying south-east - back towards Ne-Issan - the one
place he didn't want to go.

Applying a touch of right rudder, he brought the Skyrider back onto a
heading of 180 degrees - due south and peered through the canopy.  It
was now streaked with melting snow.  'Can you see them?"  His own
eyesight was extra sharp but he had discovered that some Mutes were
able to get a visual fix on moving objects at amazing distances - like
birds of prey.

Clearwater searched the sky ahead of them.

'Hang on... ' Steve made the plane weave from side to side, dipping the
left wing then the right to provide her with a better all-round view.

The southern end of Lake Michigan which lay just beyond his right
shoulder fell under the shadow of the advancing snow cloud.

Looking down, Steve saw the sand dunes and swamps that had repossessed
the area once drained and flattened under the concrete bases of
steel-making plants and petro-chemical complexes.  Poisonous effluents
and sulphurous smoke-stack emissions in the pre-Holocaust era had
turned the area into a wasteland but nine centuries later, the waters
of Lake Michigan were as clean and blue as when the first 17th century
French fur trappers had canoed down the Wabash.

Clearwater flung her arm across the cockpit in front of Steve's face.

'There!"

He followed her pointing finger.  Several hundred feet below them, a
winged speck was heading southwest.

Kelso and Jodi.  Any minute now they would be running out of gas and
they would both be searching for a reasonably safe place to put down.

'Don't lose sight of them,' said Steve.  He switched on the
plane-to-plane channel.  'Breaker One to Breaker Two.  What's your fuel
state?  Over."

It was Jodi who replied.  'Breaker Two.  We've had zero on the dial for
the last six minutes but the motor's still - uh-oh, correction.  It
just cut out on us.  Over."

'Okay, hang in there.  I know you'll be fighting gravity from here on
in but try to find a spot that's big enough for both of us.  We'll be
coming in right behind you."

'Roger Wilco.  Dave says he can't wait.  According to the map there's a
hardway running east to west.  We're aiming for that.  Breaker Two over
and out."

As Jodi went off the air, the plane ran into another blinding flurry of
snow.  A knot formed in her stomach.

'Are we gonna be able to get down?"

Kelso wrestled with the controls.  'Kaz - that's the one thing you can
be sure of.  Whether we walk away is another matter entirely."

They broke out into a relatively clear patch of sky.

Two hundred feet below them they saw the vague outline of the hardway
the remains of US Highway 30.

With the coating of snow thickening by the minute, it was impossible to
gauge what condition it was in and without power they could not make an
exploratory low-level pass.  Once again they were wrapped in a swirling
white cloud, the flakes turning to translucent sludge as they hit the
canopy.  The slipstream blew the sludge into ragged waves that crept
slowly up the windshield.  Jodi and Kelso leaned forward and peered
through the gaps, trying to get a clearer view.

'This is hopeless,' shouted Kelso.  'I'm gonna make a downwind
landing!"  He selected full flap.  'Pull your straps tight!"  Without
power, any turn has to be made nose down to avoid a stall which, at low
altitude, is usually fatal.

Putting the snow behind their tail increased the forward visibility a
little but decreased the speed of the air flowing over the wings,
robbing them of valuable lift and increasing their rate of descent.

The snow-covered hardway came up to meet them at an alarming rate
before Kelso could line up the nose properly.

'Dave!  For crissakes--!'

BLUMMFFF!  Jodi's skull and spine collided with a sickening jolt as the
three plump tyres flattened onto the axles then bounced the plane back
into the air on the north side of the hardway.  Trees loomed up
ahead.

Kelso kicked on some right rudder to bring the nose round.  With the
Skyrider now close to stalling speed its response to control movements
was mushy but with the help of a stream of invective from Kelso, it
wallowed back towards the centreline of the makeshift runway.

'Okay!  This is it!"  Kelso tried to correct the drift to the right but
the controls no longer responded.  Jodi braced herself as they dropped
through the last fifteen feet like a stone.

The main wheel on her side of the plane hit the.  ground first.  The
undercarriage strut had survived the first punishing blow but this
second impact tore it loose.  The Skyrider crashed forward onto its
nose-wheel, buckling the supporting strut and driving it upwards
through the fuselage.  The right wheel landed on the sloping, overgrown
grass verge, tilting the Skyrider further over to the left.  The tip of
the wing on Jodi's side was ripped to pieces as it came into contact
with the ground.  She tried to steady herself as the plane slewed
round, jolting and bouncing over the uneven surface of the hardway.

There were sharp cracks and rending noises as other parts of the plane
to the rear of the cockpit broke loose.

The Skyrider spun around once on its belly then slid sideways along the
axis of the undamaged starboard wing into the snow-covered undergrowth
on the northern side of the hardway.

Jodi could now only see where they'd been and not where they were going
but during the ground-loop, she had caught a whip-pan glimpse of
several more clumps of trees.  Her internal radar sensed they were now
probably on a collision course.  She dropped her chin onto her chest
and hugged her arms.  If there was an afterwards, she knew they would
discover there was more than enough room for half a Skyrider to pass
between the trees but by Sod's Law they were bound to hit one.  She was
not disappointed.

With the fine tuning only Destiny can provide, the leading edge of the
starboard wing lost its top coat of paint as it scraped past the rim of
the trunk of the last tree of the last clump at a neat tangent, leaving
Kelso's side of the cockpit to take the full impact.

KERR-RUNCH!!  Jodi was held in her seat by the safety harness but her
head was thrown back against the bulkhead with a force that not even
her crash helmet could absorb.  In the split second before she lost
consciousness, the last thing her mind registered was an overwhelming
sense of relief: she might die, but she would not burn...

The weather was even worse when Steve and Clearwater arrived on the
scene but with their lighter all-up weight, they still had some gas in
the tank.  Skimming perilously close to the tops of the trees, Steve
flew up and down the highway, searching for Kelso's Skyrider.

Now flying into the teeth of a full-scale blizzard, Steve had to give
his full attention to keeping the plane on course.  He had to rely on
Clearwater but even her sharp eyes missed it on the first two
attempts.

She spotted it as Steve made a third, westward, pass.

'There they are I' 'Good!  Keep your eye on it!"

'But, ohh - its wings are broken!"  She turned around in her seat,
pressing her face against the canopy.  'And nothing moves!"

'In this weather, they're better off staying inside,' said Steve,
trying to sound optimistic.  He hadn't seen the wreckage for himself
but it didn't sound too promising.

On the other hand, there was no point in worrying about what might or
might not have happened to Jodi, Kelso and Cadillac.  The first thing
they had to do was make a safe landing themselves.

Banking to the left, he flew eastwards roughly parallel with the
hardway, passing the Skyhawk on the downwind leg.  Its charcoal-grey
outline was fast disappearing under the snow.  Another thirty seconds
on the cockpit's digital clock took him three quarters of a mile down
the road and clear of the trees.

As he circled round and prepared to land, he spoke to Clearwater over
the radio channel that linked their headsets.  'Okay!  I'm gonna be
busy trying to keep this thing lined up on the hardway so give me a
shout when you see 'em.  Should be any second now!"

Clearwater unbuckled her safety harness and sat on the edge of her
seat, bracing herself against the instrument panel.

Forward visibility was atrocious.  The ground on all sides was now
completely blanketed with snow and the sky was full of it.  The
instruments told Steve he was flying more or less straight and level at
just under fifty feet but his stomach told him they were being buffeted
up, down and sideways by the gale-force gusts of wind.

The only reliable guide to where the ground ended and the sky began
were the dark sheltered recesses of the trees where the inner branches
met the trunks.

'Now!  Now!!"

Steve waited till the wheels touched before cutting the motor.  He
caught a fleeting glimpse of the front half of Kelso's Skyrider wrapped
around a tree as they flashed past, rocking and juddering along a
six-lane highway that had not been resurfaced for over nine hundred
years.  It was like rollerskating over corrugated iron.  He pulled the
brake lever back as far as it would go, locking the two main wheels.

And just as he was wondering what had happened to the other half of the
Skyrider, they ploughed into it.

Steve, who had received a split-second advance warning from his
resident guardian angel, threw his arm across Clearwater's chest and
yanked her backwards.  He 'succeeded in stopping her going head first
through the canopy but the sudden deceleration caused everything from
the waist down to slide forwards off the seat.  Her knees crashed
against the instrument panel with a sharp, bone-cracking noise that
made him wince.

Clearwater didn't utter a sound.  A secret combination of true grit and
mental discipline rendered Mutes - with a few exceptions - almost
totally impervious to pain.

'Christo!  That sounded terrible.  You okay.9' She eased herself slowly
into an upright sitting position and rubbed both kneecaps.  'I'll tell
you after I've tried to walk."  She searched for the lever that opened
her side of the canopy.  'We must find Cadillac--' Steve grabbed her
shoulder and held her down.  'You stay right there.  I'll go check
what's happened."  He slid out quickly, landing with his weight on his
right foot.

The wound in his thigh gave him a sickening reminder that she wasn't
the only one who might not be in the best shape for an overland
expedition.

He shut the canopy and checked to see what they'd run into.  The
mangled tail-boom section of Kelso's plane was caught against the rear
wheel struts.  They had also passed over an unseen but unyielding
projection probably a rock - which had mangled the tips of the
propeller blades.

Well done, Brickman .  . . Opening the hatch of the cargo bay, he
rummaged through the bag of odds and ends they had brought with them
and pulled out a straw poncho - one of the items of clothing issued to
Mute slaves by the Iron Masters.  Lowering the visor of his crash
helmet, Steve leaned against the howling wind and hobbled down the
hardway towards the wrecked Skyrider.

The buckled fuselage pod with its rear-mounted engine and one and a
half wings lay hard up against a huge tree - now a dark silhouette
against the white landscape.  The impact had shaken the snow off the
branches, dumping it on the wreck below.  There was no sign of movement
and no sound.

The canopy release handle on the port side was jammed.  Steve broke
open the emergency rescue panel behind the cockpit and used the spiked
axe to prise the canopy open.  The hinges were warped and stiff.  Steve
forced it upwards and saw that the other half had shattered.  Snow was
blowing in, covering Kelso's body.

Jodi's had twisted towards the point of impact.  Her left arm was bent
over her chest, the other lay across Kelso.

Steve leant in and laid a hand on her shoulder.

'Jodi .  . .?"

Her head rocked slowly against the bulkhead as she started to come
round.

'Hi.  How're you doing?"

Jodi's eyes fluttered open.  It took a few seconds to get her eyes into
focus.  Her brain took a little longer.  'I, uh ?.  .

uhh..."  Her painted hands fumbled ineffectually with the release clip
of her harness.

Steve undid it for her then loosened the chin strap of her crash helmet
and eased it off.  'Does it feel as if anything's broken?"

Jodi moved her arms and legs.  'Nuhh .  . . think I'm okay.  It's just
my neck."  She raised her head gingerly.

'Oww--!"

'Here - lemme have a go at it."  Steve massaged the muscles and bones
at the top of her spine, causing her to gasp with pain.

'Hey!  Go easy!"

'You'll survive.  It's gonna hurt for a while but everything seems to
be in place."

Jodi carried on where Steve had left off.  'Can always give myself a
shot, I suppose.  Dave and I picked up some morphine jabs and a few
packs of Cloud Nines when we raided the beach store."

Steve nodded towards Kelso.  'We may need all of that for him assuming
he's still with us.  'C'mon, shift your butt."  He gave Jodi a helping
hand as she climbed stiffly out of the cockpit.  They saw Clearwater
limping unsteadily towards them.

'Looks like another candidate for the sick parade."

Jodi's teeth were chattering with cold but she could not help laughing
at their predicament.  'What a mess!  Still, I s'pose things can only
get better."

Steve was already inside the cockpit checking Kelso's heartbeat?'He's
alive .  . . Dave!  Dave!  Can you hear me?"

The big man gave an answering groan.  Steve lifted the visor of Kelso's
helmet and saw his eyelids pressed tightly together as he mastered a
wave of pain.  The alloy ribs and plating on his side of the cockpit
was ripped and mangled and Kelso was pinned underneath from the hips
down.  Steve realized it would take a while to free him.

'Is he hurt bad?"  asked Jodi.

'Can't tell yet but it don't look too good."

Clearwater reached them and leaned against the cockpit sill, breathing
in and out through clenched teeth.

'Welcome to the A-Team... ' said Jodi.

The joke was lost on Clearwater.  She turned towards Steve and waited
for him to acknowledge her presence.

The acknowledgement, when it came, lacked the easy charm that many of
his admirers found so irresistible.

'What the hell are you doing here?  I told you to stay in the plane I'
'Where's Cadillac?!"

'One thing at a time!"  snapped Steve.  'We got a badly injured man
here!"

'But Cadillac may be hurt too!"

'Make up your mind!  A little while back you told me everything was
gonna be okay 'cause you were both protected by Talisman!"

'Ohh, Sweet Mother!  You're as pig-headed as he is!"

Momentarily forgetting she had two badly bruised knees, Clearwater
stamped her right foot to vent her frustration and almost fainted from
the searing pain that filled her leg from hip to ankle.

Jodi caught her as she swayed and sat her down on the sill.  'Easy now,
just.  hang in there, okay?  We're on his case."

Steve clambered out of the cockpit.  He shared Clearwater's concern but
temper tantrums he could do without.  'Jodi - that hole in the canopy
is proving a real pain in the butt.  We need some kind of cover to keep
the snow off him while we get him out."

'How about using the hatch off the cargo bay?"

'Brilliant... ' Steve fished the axe out of the cockpit then, adding a
dash of acid, he said: 'And if it turns out Cadillac's still in one
piece, we can ask him if he'd care to give us a hand."

Clearwater met his narrowed eyes but refused to take the bait.

Steve got to work with the axe.  The cargo door was designed to lift
upwards, but with the plane lying on its belly and tilted towards them,
the release catches were pinned against the ground.  After chopping
through the hinges, Steve used the axe handle to lever the curved panel
open far enough to get one foot on the top edge then he and Jodi
trampled it to the ground.

Clearwater helped Jodi to pull out the bulging, overweight bag of swag
Kelso had slung in on top of their passenger.  As they lifted it clear,
Cadillac's limp body slid into view, head first, face down.

Fearing the worst, Steve turned him over.  There wasn't a mark on
him.

His eyes were shut, but he wasn't unconscious.  He was fast asleep
snoring contentedly.

With a cry of exasperation, Clearwater scooped up a handful of snow and
rubbed it over his face then, when he didn't respond quickly enough,
she stuffed a second helping down the front of his tunic.

"Yyyu-ughhh!  Wha - wha's happening?!"  Cadillac hoisted himself up on
his elbows, bonked his skull on the low roof of the cargo bay and fell
back clutching his forehead.  'Sheeehh!"

While Steve worked to free the bottom edge of the hatch, Clearwater and
Jodi hauled Cadillac out and stood him upright.  His legs were still
rubbery.  The Mute had drunk so much sake at Long Point they'd
practically had to pour him into the cargo hold.  But with hindsight it
had proved to be the safest way to travel.  It was amazing.  The sole
injury he'd sustained was the bump he'd collected on waking up.

Pulling the sodden front of his tunic away from his chest, Cadillac
draped an arm across Clearwater's shoulders and gave her, then Jodi, a
lop-sided grin of recognition.

Jodi watched as he took stock of his surroundings, ending with a
puzzled stare at the dark grey sky from which white flakes were
dropping silently onto his upturned face.  His sodden brain finally
worked out what was happening.  'Snow,' he said.  'It's snowing!"

Incomprehension gave way to understanding followed by a wave of
cautious elation.  Cadillac seized both girls by the arm.  'Where are
we - Wyoming?"

'Not quite,' said Steve.  He wrenched the battered cargo hatch clear of
the fuselage.  'But you're getting warm..."

The wind picked up again and the snowflakes - now as big as communion
wafers - began falling thicker and faster than ever.

CHAPTER THREE

When Kelso had been heavily sedated and prised loose, it was
immediately obvious that his right arm and leg were broken but without
x-rays and an examination by a paramedic, it was impossible to tell if
he had additional internal injuries.  Once again, Clearwater came to
their rescue.  Using a previously unrevealed gift allied to her powers
as a summoner, she was able to 'read' what she called 'the fire
devils'.  Laying her hands gently on Kelso's body, she located the
fractures in his upper arm and thigh and found he also had four cracked
ribs.  Worst of all, he had a broken hip-joint - or perhaps a fractured
pelvis.

Not good.  Not good at all...

Steve was tempted to put an end to him there and then.  The alternative
was to carry him all the way to Wyoming, but by the time they got there
- assuming they ever did - he would be beyond even the amazing skills
of Mr Snow.

It was a stark choice that might yet have to be faced if their
situation deteriorated and it was bound to cause dissension.  Steve
knew that Jodi would fight to keep him alive until the last moment.

But then maybe, if he was in Kelso's place, he would be glad to have
someone close at hand with the same protective feelings.

In the meantime, the only thing they could do was to apply splints and
bandages to his broken limbs, secure his hip-joint from further
dislocation by strapping his body to the door of the cargo hatch, keep
him warm and dry, and heavily sedated.

Thanks to Kelso's decision to plunder the beach store at Long Point
they had a supply of bandages, medicine, food and fire and - best of
all - several mirror-foil emergency blankets.  But their long-term
survival was threatened by totally inadequate footwear and clothing and
the lack of shelter.

Steve had already taken steps to deal with the latter problem.  In
order to free Kelso they first had to ease the fuselage away from the
tree using branches as levers.

The broken port wing was now propped up by those same branches, tilting
the plane over so that the starboard wingtip touched the ground.  Kelso
had been moved underneath as soon as he had been disentangled and now
lay wrapped in two of the foil blankets on a floor made of smaller
branches cut from neighbouring pine trees.  The soft ever-red foliage
gave off a sweet reassuring smell when crushed underfoot.

Under the direction of Cadillac and Clearwater, more branches were laid
at an angle against the front and rear edge of the wing.  When several
more layers had been applied and interwoven to keep out the snow, the
result was a snug, wind-proof little hideaway into which they crawled
to silently nurse their various aches and pains.

Compared to the scale of Kelso's injuries, the week-old arrow wound in
Steve's right thigh was a minor inconvenience but he would not regain
full use of his leg unless he gave it proper care and attention.

Clearwater was temporarily crippled by two bruised and swollen knees
and the whiplash injuries to Jodi's neck had left her extremely
sensitive to any jarring of her spine.

Without a pain-killer, even walking was now a disagreeable exercise,
forcing her to tiptoe around like Doctor Caligari.  That left Cadillac
as front runner - a situation Steve was not at all happy about but one
he was going to have to live with.

Despite the injury to her neck, there was nothing wrong with Jodi's
legs but it would be two or three weeks before his own and Clearwater's
would be strong enough to face a thousand mile hike - carrying Kelso
all the way.

Steve knew that putting their feet up for so long was a luxury they
would have to forego; the most they could allow themselves was two or
three days - not to rest, but to prepare for the journey ahead.

They had to keep moving.  If Karlstrom's electronic ears hadn't picked
up their panic-stricken air-to-air exchanges, he would soon learn they
had taken off with almost empty tanks.  All he had to do then was draw
a circle on the map.  And it wouldn't take long for someone of his
intelligence to figure out which part of the circle they were most
likely to be in.

There was the added, and quite unexpected, threat posed by the presence
of Iron Masters at Benton Harbour - only sixty or so miles from where
they had landed.  Since he had been able to see the wheelboat it was
reasonable to assume that someone on board might have seen the two
Skyriders passing overhead.  Even if they didn't know what they were
looking at, their curiosity would be aroused and if they were linked by
carrier-pigeon to the Yama-Shita household the news would travel
fast.

Iron Masters were compulsive scribblers; a constant stream of paperwork
flowed back and forth through the government-run postal system and the
parallel private networks of couriers - some of them winged - employed
by each of the seventeen domain-lords.

Steve and his companions had given the YamaShita family ample cause to
regret their involvement with flying machines.  The domain-lord's
relatives might confuse a report about the two Skyriders with the
rocket-powered gliders he and the others had used to escape from the
Heron Pool.

Given the time of the year, the present weather and the distance now
separating them from the family's headquarters at Sara-Kusa the
possibility of intervention from that quarter was remote but there was
no point in taking chances - especially with an unknown number of Japs
moored just up the coast.  From here on in, pursuit by the agents of
AMEXICO and the Iron Masters were factors that had to be considered
when evolving what political and military strategists called 'the worst
case scenario': it would be foolish to base their future moves on
anything else.

Steve, who now sat huddled together with Jodi, Clearwater and Cadillac
in front of the fire can, warmed his hands alongside theirs and shook
his head as he reflected on their predicament.  Why did it get more
difficult and more complicated instead of easier and simpler?  When
would it ever end?  And why had he ignored all the warning signals and
walked into this mess in the first place?

The answer was locked away somewhere inside him maybe held by the
stranger whose whispered voice he heard from time to time.  With Uncle
Bart's connections, a safe, comfortable desk job in the Black Tower
could have been his for the asking but that would have been too easy.

The example set by Poppa Jack and his own need to measure himself
against the brightest of the best had led him to become a wingman.  And
that, in turn, had led him to discover his affinity with the
overground, a mind-blowing experience which released feelings that had
shaken his previously unswerving allegiance to the Amtrak Federation
and left him wondering where he really belonged.

Steve had always believed himself to be smarter than his classmates,
had enjoyed pitting his wits against the system but why did he have
this insatiable desire to know everything, to be Number One?  Why him
and not the next guy?  What had given him the idea that he was some
kind of super-hero who could solve any problem and triumph over
impossible odds?  Where had this arrogant certitude come from?  It was
insane.  And how had he who from an early age had cultivated a steely
detachment - become involved?  Why had he begun to care about what
other people felt and what happened to them?  What the hell difference
did it make?  The Plainfolk believed it was all going to happen anyway:
'The Wheel turns, The Path is drawn... ' Mr Snow, Cadillac and
Clearwater had all trotted out that line at one time or another.  But
it didn't explain anything - like who had drawn The Path.  Talisman?

Mo-town?  The Sky Voices?  And who had given whichever one of them it
was the right to interfere?

The same question could be asked of the First Family.

Perhaps that was the reason why he couldn't let go: run for cover, take
the soft option - and why he also felt so torn and confused.  He would
like to have been comforted by the thought that he had a friend out
there, watching over him, ready to extend a helping hand, shoulder some
of the burden but he still couldn't bring himself to really trust in
anybody or anything.  There were times when he even began to have
doubts about Clearwater.  If you dug deep enough, everyone had an
angle.  And what really went against the grain was the idea that
someone else - be it a person like the President-General, or some
imagined power like Talisman - had already planned each move he would
make in life and that he, Steven Roosevelt Brickman, could do nothing
to change the future course of events.

Like many young men, Steve was confusing the material world - external
reality - with the world of the spirit.  And as there were no books in
the Federation and the only moral philosophy - spiced with a large
measure of self-interest - was dispensed through the Federation's
televideo network by the First Family, he was unaware of the nature of
his dilemma and a key pre-Holocaust quotation that might have helped to
set his mind at rest: 'We may not be master of our own destiny but each
of us is the captain of our soul'.

Regardless of our physical or material circumstances, whether we are
fated to be showered with good fortune or dealt the cruellest blows (or
a mixture of both) we have the power within us to make the conscious
decision to retain our humanity, the ability to love, and our sense of
what is right and just, and true.

When Jodi had gone back down the hardway to pick up the trail bags from
Steve's Skyrider, she had used her newly acquired knowledge of the
nav-systems to get a fix on their present position.  The undamaged
cockpit contained an inertial plotting device which automatically
monitored speed and direction throughout the flight.

Since it had logged the coordinates of Long Point, it was able to work
out where it was now.  When the latitude and longitude readout was
applied to the map, she was able to tell Steve they had landed a few
miles to the east of navref point Merriville, Indiana.

Their flight had taken them into the next time zone.

The on-board digital display had adjusted itself automatically, leaving
their wristwatches running an hour fast - something she failed to
notice.  Not that it mattered; they had other more pressing concerns.

But for the record, it was now 1416 hours Central Standard Time and it
snowed steadily for the rest of the day.

Nine hundred miles to the southwest, the clocks aboard The Lady from
Louisiana were still set to Mountain Standard Time.  Colonel Marie
Anderssen had signalled her safe arrival at Santa Fe and would soon
board the inbound afternoon shuttle for Houston/GC.  So far, The Lady
had made good headway, maintaining an average speed of 18 miles per
hour.  She had succeeded in crossing the Arkansas River west of an old
reservoir without having to decouple the wagons, and was now heading
towards Lamar, the last navref point before the Colorado/Kansas state
line.

The next morning, when Izo Wantanabe emerged from his quarters on the
wheelboat, the skies had cleared.

Climbing up the newly-swept steps to the bridge, Izo scanned the
surrounding landscape.  A deep covering of snow - heaped in places into
mountainous drifts stretched away to the north, east and south as far
as he could see.

Because of the weather, Izo had been unable to send the message he had
prepared the previous day and it was now probably a waste of time to do
so.  If the bird-men had managed to outrun the snow cloud and return to
their roost the answer to his query would be largely academic.  On the
other hand, the receipt of his message and its contents would be duly
noted in the log.  If examined by his superiors it would provide proof
of his alertness.  But even if the agent at Ludington had nothing to
report it did not significantly alter the overall situation.  The iron
snake, which carried the cloud-warriors in her belly and killed all
those who came too close with its white-hot breath, might still be
lurking on the west bank of the Miz-Hippy River.

Offensive actions during the winter months were unprecedented but they
could not be ruled out.  The cloud-warriors could have seen the
wheelboat.  If their masters concluded that its presence signified a
strengthening of the links between the Iron Masters and the Plainfolk
they might return to attack it with the much-feared fire-blossoms.

From now on, he and his staff must remain vigilant.  Summoning them on
deck, he told them what he had seen the previous day and explained its
importance.  Starting immediately, the entire crew, working in pairs on
two-hour shifts, were to maintain a sky-watch from dawn to dusk until
further notice.

After adding a hasty postscript to his original message, Izo ordered
the pigeon-keeper to prepare the fastest bird they held from the
Ludington coop.  While the message, in its tiny capsule, was being
attached to the bird's leg, a cartier-pigeon arrived from Di-taroya,
the first outland station, on the straights of Hui-niso.  Reports
passed on by 'friendly' Mute clans, whose turf lay to the northwest,
spoke of two 'arrowheads' that had flown 'out of the east."

From Ne-Issan .  . .

An inner voice told Izo that these were the same pair he had seen
running ahead of the snow-cloud.  The agent at Di-taroya, who was
preparing a report to send to Lord Yama-Shita, wanted to know if these
craft had been sighted by the staff of the other stations.  If the
answer was 'yes' they were to contact Lord Yama-Shita directly.

Seized by a premonition that he had accidentally become a player in an
intriguing and mysterious drama, Izo tore up his first message and
swiftly prepared another.

The thought that the account of what he had seen, signed and sealed
with his name, would soon be on its way to the palace at Sara-kusa
excited him.  The original query to Ludington might lay unnoticed for
months, even years; this report would reach people of importance in a
matter of days, drawing their attention to the diligence with which he
performed his appointed task.  Izo closed his eyes and called upon the
Goddess of Good Fortune to bless his actions.  He felt her calm hand on
his brow; his brush hand ceased quivering.  This was not the end of the
affair.  There would be more questions.  When they came, he intended to
have some of the answers.

The pigeon circled several times as it got its bearings then flew off
eastwards on rapidly beating wings.

Calling the master-sergeant to his quarters, Izo informed him that he
had decided to make a four-day journey on horseback into the interior,
accompanied by two sea-soldiers, pack-mules, and one of the male
domestics to act as forager.  By making contact with the scattered
clans whose turfs lay to the south of his station Izo hoped to
establish with some precision where the 'arrowheads' had gone after
passing over Benton Har-bout.

He asked the sergeant to select three dependable men and appointed him
to command the house-boat in his absence.

Each agent had been supplied with four horses and six pack mules for
overland sorties.  The weather was far from ideal for a horseback ride
but the primary reason for the animals' presence was to impress the
natives.  The enormous size of the Great River wheelboats and the
formidable appearance of the masked nobles and samurai created an
atmosphere of authority and power that could not be matched by the
agent's modest house-boat and relatively puny entourage.  Nor could the
sense of occasion that accompanied their brief annual visits to the
trading post be sustained for months on end.

The boats anchored at the outland stations could have been easily
overrun but the agents had been assured they were unlikely to be
attacked.  The Plainfolk clans - who were not as dumb as they looked
had long realized that any unprovoked aggression would be
counterproductive.

But that realization did not automatically engender respect especially
when you were inferior both in numbers and physical stature.

That was the real problem: the average grass-monkey stood head and
shoulders above the average Iron Master.  Since they did not have the
awesome bulk of three giant wheelboats to act as a backdrop to their
negotiations, Izo and the other agents needed something to enhance
their status as Sons of Ne-Issan.  Horses which the Plainfolk had never
seen before - had been the answer.  Once seated in the saddle, Izo was
immediately elevated to an impressive height and wherever they went,
horse and rider were greeted with universal awe.

After the necessary preparations for the journey had been completed,
Izo took leave of his tearful wife and children and set off in a
southwesterly direction.  The Iron Masters were used to harsh winters
but the deep snow hampered the movement of both men and horses.

Since this was the first winter spent in the outlands, they did not
know that with the onset of the 'White Death', the Plainfolk went to
ground, living in a state of semi-hibernation like wild animals.  Their
brains tended to fall asleep too, and the inhabitants of the few
settlements Izo managed to find were even more doltish than usual and
could offer no assistance even when their spirits had been warmed with
a cup of sake.

On the fourth day, numb with the cold, hungry and ill-tempered, Izo
turned back towards Benton Harbour.

His patient escort, hardly able to believe their luck, followed in
grateful silence, buoyed up by visions of steaming tubs, hot food, warm
beds and glowing charcoal braziers.  Their expectations of an early
return to 'civilization' were shattered when Izo, acting on a sudden
impulse, turned left and cantered off along an ancient hardway which
the cutting wind had .partially cleared of snow.

The three-man escort exchanged weary glances then followed with sinking
hearts, tugging the reluctant pack-mules behind them.  Head down, face
averted, man and beast leant their right shoulders into the wind as it
tore thin white streamers from the razor-edged crests of the drifts and
sent them snaking across their path.  On they went for the rest of the
day, covering some twenty-five miles - much of it on foot - urging
their exhausted animals through the more densely-covered sections where
the snow was often thigh-deep.

As darkness fell, Izo's party sought the shelter of a clump of pine
trees that stood huddled together in the freezing wastes like
beleaguered sentinels.  Cutting branches to provide the tethered horses
and mules with a warm footing, they tied blankets to their backs, fed
them the last of the hay then set up the communal tent at the foot of
the innermost tree.

Supper consisted of balls of cold rice and meat washed down with hot
green tea cooked over a small charcoal firepot.  Izo sent one of the
soldiers out to make a last check on the animals then, on his return,
poured a small cup of sake for each man as a nightcap and announced his
firm decision to start out for Benton Harbour at first light.  Since
their rations were almost exhausted and their search had so far failed
to turn up one single piece of useful information his companions were
ready to believe that this time he meant it.

Warming their feet and hands over the embers, they slid into their
fur-lined sleeping bags, pulled the hood tops tight around their faces
and dreamt of home: of boughs heavy with pink cherry blossom,
sun-dappled meadows, the quicksilver flash of fish rising from the
mirrored surface of a lake, the laughter of children as they lay
sprawled on top of a wagon-load of sweet-smelling hay, the autumn sun,
a vast red disc, sinking through a golden haze, the scent of pollen and
wild flowers lying heavy on the still evening air.

On the morning of the fifth day, they awoke to discover they had passed
the night less than a hundred paces from another encampment: a curious
structure which betrayed its alien origin even under a thick coating of
snow.  Arming their bows, the two soldiers approached cautiously.  Izo,
brandishing a sword that had never drawn blood while in his hands,
called upon the occupants to show themselves.  His imperious command in
Japanese was unlikely to be understood, but the sound of his voice
breaking the stillness ought to have produced some response.

Nothing moved, no one stirred.

Covered by the drawn bows of the two sea-soldiers, Izo and his servant
made a circular tour of inspection and found themselves confronted by
the snow-covered remains of a straight-winged vehicle which lay tilted
on one side.  The body of the vehicle, whose width was less than the
span of his outstretched hands contained a windowed compartment, one
side of which had been crushed against the nearby tree.

Izo made a cursory examination of the snow-covered interior of the
compartment from a safe distance, noted the coverless, empty storage
space that lay behind it then walked round to the other side.

The downward-pointing wing had been turned into a make-shift shelter
using branches cut from the surrounding pine trees.  Izo ordered his
servant to check that it was empty then followed him in.  Smaller
branches had been laid inside to make a floor.  A few charred pieces of
wood lay around a small soot-covered metal container.

There were several similar open-topped containers which, from their
smell, may have contained outlandish food.  There were also some
irregular-shaped pieces of a mysterious flexible material with a
surface like polished steel and - most significant of all - some torn
strips of blood-stained blue-grey cloth.

One of them bore part of a house-symbol which Izo

recognized instantly.  The dark-brown eight-petalled flower of the
Min-Orota.  Pale blue-grey was the colour of the clothes worn
exclusively by the slave workers of Ne-Issan.  This was part of a tunic
and the blood seemed to indicate the owner had been injured when the
sky-chariot had come to earth.

The reason for him being on board was obvious - this was an attempt to
escape.  But how had an ignorant slave gained access to such a craft
and where were the long-dogs who had guided it and its twin companion
through the air?

A shout from one of the soldiers put an end to further speculation.

Emerging from the shelter, Izo hurried round to the other side of the
wrecked sky-chariot and saw one of the sea-soldiers floundering towards
him through the knee-deep snow.  The soldier pointed to his companion
who had moved some considerable distance along the hardway and was
waving his arms excitedly.

Izo broke into a high stepping run, trying to place his feet in the
holes already dug by the two soldiers.

'Another sky-chariot!"  gasped the first soldier.  'Empty - but this
one-' He paused to gulp down more air, ' - unbroken!"  Izo ordered him
to rejoin the servant by the wreck and pressed on.  Halfway there, when
his thigh muscles began to burn, he abandoned the high step and began
to kick his way through the snow like a blunt plough, leaving a ragged
furrow behind him.

As he drew closer to the second soldier, Izo caught sight of the
second, snow-covered craft and began to share his excitement.  Viewed
from a distance, it was almost invisible against the white landscape.

The wind-driven flakes had stuck to the freezing cold surface, covering
all but the extreme underside of the dark grey body.

Bursting with pride, the sea-soldier led Izo towards his find, stamping
the snow down ahead of him.  The sky-chariot stood on three legs with
its feet buried in snow that rose to within inches of its belly.  With
its straight wings spread out on each side at shoulder height it looked
like a plump-bodied duck gliding down to alight on a pond.

Its tail - which Izo could just touch by reaching up with his
fingertips - was attached to two parallel hollow beams that grew out of
the rear edge of the wings.  A raised hatch, held open by a stay,
revealed another empty storage space.  Moving onto the passenger
compartment, he ordered the soldier to scrub away the frozen coating
from one of the side windows then peered inside.

The snow lying on the rest of the canopy cast an eerie light over the
dark-coloured interior.  Despite their outlandish design, the two seats
with sets of straps to secure the occupants were easy to identify.  As
to the function of the strange devices that lined the four sides of the
compartment, that was a mystery Izo did not intend to pry into.  He had
seen enough to convince himself that it was an exceedingly dangerous
place which he and his men should not attempt to enter.  The craft, and
everything within it, was the work of the sand-burrowers, slaves of The
Dark Light; the evil force that had totally destroyed The World
Before.

Izo was left in no doubt that these were the two sky-chariots that had
been seen flying out of the east and had later passed over Benton
Harbour.  He and the soldier scoured the surrounding area but the
intermittent blizzards that had hampered their progress during the
first three days had obliterated the tracks made by the departing
cloud-warriors.

It would make finding them more difficult but Izo was not unduly
worried.  Since his party had not encountered tracks of any small
groups during their southward journey, it meant the cloud-warriors must
have headed in the direction he expected - towards the west.  If they
were travelling on foot through deep snow with at least one wounded
companion, their progress would be painfully slow.

The condition of his quarry and the direction they had

taken were guesses based on the most tenuous evidence but, in the
past, Izo had always been lucky when he had backed his own judgement.

If he was right again (and he was convinced he was) then there was a
reasonable chance of picking up their trail before they reached the
Miz-Hippy.

But without food for themselves and their exhausted horses, Izo knew
that immediate pursuit was impossible.

Given the present weather they would need fresh mounts and more
pack-animals before undertaking another overland journey.  The first
move was to return to the house-boat and send word to his masters.

Signalling the sea-soldier to follow him, he turned back towards the
campsite and broke into a stumbling lan...

Steve's unknown adversary was right.  Since abandoning their first
makeshift shelter beneath the wing of the wrecked Skyrider, progress
across the snow-covered landscape had been painfully slow but the
problem of keeping warm had been partially solved prior to their
departure.  Leaving Clearwater to look after Kelso, Steve and Jodi had
gone out hunting with Cadillac.  The hand-guns lacked the range of the
Mute crossbows but after two days of plugging away at anything and
everything dressed in a fur coat they amassed enough skins to keep the
worst of the cold out.

The problem of stitching them together had been foreseen by whoever had
designed the survival packs that came with each Skyrider; each pack
contained a variety of needles and reels of stout waxed thread.

Squatting around the fire like immigrant tailors fresh from a shetl in
Czarist Russia, they set to work.  By dawn, the sewing circle had
produced some rough shapeless over-garments which they then tied in
place around each other's bodies using electric wiring and strips of
fabric culled from the wrecked Skyrider.  It was fortunate they were
concerned more with keeping warm than keeping up appearances for when
the last knots were tied and they emerged to test their yeti-boots in
the snow, they looked like a ragamuffin quartet of stone-age primitives
in search of a mammoth beefburger.

The collective but somewhat reluctant decision to head west along the
hardway was taken round about the time that Izo Wantanabe decided to
head in the same direction.  A bitterly chill wind was driving the snow
horizontally across the landscape but Steve would not allow them to
wait until it stopped.  They set out in a somewhat acrimonious mood but
despite the appalling weather they chose the right moment for the snow
and wind quickly obliterated their tracks.

Dave Kelso, trussed up like a Bacofoil mummy in his reflective
blankets, and covered with a bear skin - still raw and bloody on the
inside - lay on an improvised stretcher with Jodi's half of the canopy
lashed over the top part of his body as extra protection.

With Steve paired with Clearwater at the front, and Cadillac with Jodi
at the back, the load was evenly and easily distributed but after
they'd covered the first few miles, Steve realized there was no way
they could carry him through the snow to Wyoming.

Besides being not physically possible, there was no point in doing so
as Steve had already concluded.

Kelso's fractures would be incurable by the time he got there.  But
even if they dumped him, it was highly doubtful whether they themselves
could survive such a journey, ill-prepared, and in the depths of
winter.

They had to find somewhere to hole up until spring.

Steve only knew of one place - the dugout he'd used in Nebraska.  It
was warm, dry, well-concealed and just about big enough for the five of
them.  Nice idea, but there were two big snags.  The dugout had been
set up by AMEXICO, which meant there might be another undercover agent
in residence - in radio contact with Karlstrom.  And - the real killer
- it was more than seven hundred miles from their present position.

With a pang of regret, Steve recalled Bar, the playful wolfcub whose
brief life had been blown away by Malone.  He wiped the scene from his
inner eye and turned his thoughts back to the problem of finding
suitable winter quarters.

There had to be another solution .  . .

There was - but the elements did not drop into place until several days
later.

Warmed by an hour-long soak in a steaming bathtub and the loving
embrace of his wife, Yumiko, Izo Wantanabe's spirits rose even further
when his trusty sergeant presented another dispatch which had arrived
by carrier-pigeon the day before his return.

Izo broke the tiny container with trembling fingers and unrolled the
ribbon of paper.  It was longer than usual and double-sided.  The
dispatch - sent directly from the Sara-kusa Palace, home of Yama-Shita
- was signed by Aishi Sakimoto, one of the domain-lord's uncles and key
member of the family's Inner Council.  But Sakimoto had also written
the dispatch with his own hand, using the intimate form of address
normally reserved for correspondence between noblemen of equivalent
rank.

The gesture was not lost on Izo.

The contents of the dispatch were startling.  The house of Yama-Shita
sought five slaves who had murdered scores of high-ranking Iron Masters
with a deadly combination of black powder and The Dark Light, then had
escaped by means of 'flying-horses'.

Izo was requested to do his utmost to discover the subsequent fate of
the two straight-winged craft.  If it was found that their aerial
journey had continued, Sakimoto wished to be informed of their last
known heading.  If, on the other hand, the weather had forced them to
come to earth in the area mandated to him, Izo was urged to do his
utmost to discover the present whereabouts of the riders - alive or
dead.

Sakimoto acknowledged that the search might prove fruitless but the
honour of the Yama-Shita family was at stake.  If the riders were found
alive, Izo was to use the subtlest means at his disposal to detain them
in the area without giving them cause for alarm.  A punitive expedition
would be mounted to bring them and their accomplices to justice but
this could not leave Ne-Issan until spring of the following year.

A delaying action was therefore essential but Izo was ordered not to
intervene directly with his own small force.  The riders had powerful
friends and secret means to summon them in the twinkling of an eye.

Izo was empowered to offer inducements to the Plainfolk to secure their
cooperation.  He was, of course, expected to use his discretion but the
Yama-Shita family undertook to honour any such promises he made on
their behalf- if they led to positive results.

The message ended with a warm greeting and the promise that, if Izo was
successful, he and his family would be richly rewarded with lands and
titles.  Izo needed no further prompting.  With the discovery of the
two abandoned 'flying-horses', his dream of attaining social status and
material rewards commensurate with his abilities was already within his
grasp.  If the cloud-warriors were to be apprehended, there was not a
moment to lose.

While the engine room crew laboured to raise a head of steam, Izo
watched from the bridge as a second pigeon bearing the latest report
humbly addressed to Aishi Sakimoto - was launched towards Sara-kusa.  A
small guard-detail' was put ashore to look after the stables and log
store then, when his sergeant reported the boat was ready to put to
sea, Izo gave the order to raise the anchor and directed the helmsman
to steer due west across Lake Mi-shiga towards the legendary birthplace
of the She-Kargo Mutes.

The preliminary schedule drawn up by Captain Ryder, the navigation
officer, showed The Lady's ETA at Cedar Rapids as 1615 hours on the
15th November.  Given the time of year, it proved imprudently
optimistic but although Ryder bore the brunt of CINC-TRAIN's subsequent
displeasure, he could hardly be blamed for getting it wrong.  No
wagon-train had ever ventured beyond the snow-line before.

From Trinidad, Colorado, to the banks of the Missouri, everything went
according to plan.  Travelling round the clock on what Trail-Blazer
crews termed a three-shift roll The Lady logged an average of 18 mph
over the first 620 miles of her journey, arriving at Kansas City in the
late afternoon of the 13th.

Although the night air and ground temperatures were plunging with the
onset of winter they had not encountered a drop of rain or a flake of
snow, despite the cloudy, threatening skies.  That left The Lady
rolling over a dry-bed - the optimum conditions for a long haul over
the crumbling, grass and weed-infested foundations of the pre-Holocaust
highway system.

The bridges spanning rivers and gorges had vanished long ago.  Shallow,
slow-running rivers could be negotiated by simply driving across at the
marked fording points; the deeper, wider ones - like the Missouri could
only be crossed with the aid of special ferrying equipment.

Rivers with precipitous banks or rock-strewn rapids formed impassable
barriers that had to be circumnavigated.

Where possible, the Federation's wagon-trains also followed the gentle
curves and gradients fashioned by the predecessors of Amtrak, the
company that had inherited the shrunken remains of the American railway
network - the giant, epoch-making enterprise which had tamed and
transformed a savage continent.

The width of the wagon-trains meant they could only travel along lines
where, in the distant past, two or more sets of tracks had been laid
and because of their height, the tunnels - many of which, in any case,
had fallen in on themselves - were as impassable as river gorges.

One of the tasks the First Family intended to dedicate itself to after
the conquest of the Blue-Sky World, was the restoration of the American
railroad system.  The Founding Father, George Washington Jefferson the
First had been one of the dedicated visionaries who had helped to
create the MX missile trains that had ridden the rails before the
Holocaust and it was to honour his memory that the historic lines were
to be rebuilt.  Not only rebuilt.  History was to be recreated.  The
new rolling stock would not be overground versions of the Trans-Am
shuttle with its high-speed linear induction motor, they would be
lovingly-constructed replicas of the giant 4-6-4 Union Pacific locos
from the glorious era of steam when brains and brawn formed an enduring
and unequalled partnership that could - and quite literally did - move
mountains.

Disguised as ordinary freight trains, the MX launch vehicles and
command modules circulated around the Amtrak system from coast to
coast.  The concrete ICBM silos buried beneath the prairies had been
targeted by the enemy for decades, but the MX trains - the Pentagon's
best-kept secret of the last years of the 20th century - remained
safely hidden from the prying camera lenses of hostile reconnaissance
satellites: impossible to find, fix and strike.

Some perished through random targeting - being in the wrong place at
the wrong time during the first strike but many more survived, their
crews protected in their sealed, radiation-proof environments.  It was
from these trains, as America was turned into a giant funeral pyre,
that the second devastating strike had been launched the strike that
utterly destroyed the enemies of freedom but which also triggered the
detonation of their orbiting Doomsday weapons, bringing about the end
of what the Mutes called The Old Time.

The knowledge of that particular piece of history was confined to the
very top echelons of the First Family.  As far as the rest of the
Federation was concerned, the history archives that could be accessed
by courtesy of COLUMBUS left the viewer in no doubt as to who was
responsible for the Holocaust: the Mutes.

Since leaving Pueblo, two of The Lady's complement of twelve new Mark
Two Skyhawks had been constantly aloft during the hours of daylight on
what were known as Forward Air Patrols.  The single-seat rear-engined
microlites were the airborne equivalent of the sharp-eyed horsemen who
once rode ahead of the ox-drawn pioneer wagons and US Cavalry columns
that blazed their way across the continent and into history.

Now, twelve centuries later, the Skyhawks - like the birds of prey who
were their namesakes - drifted back and forth across the cloud-filled
blue with the same effortless grace, scanning the flanks and the route
ahead for any obstacles or hidden dangers.

In the gathering dusk, Gus White, a classmate of Steve Brickman and
leader of the last patrol of the day, switched on the two landing
lights mounted behind perspex fairings at the front of the slim
fuselage pod and turned westwards over the wide placid waters of the
Missouri.  His wingman, curving in from a last search of The Lady's
northern flank, followed suit, throttling back to put half a mile
between them as he lined up on Gus's tail.

The Lady, who had already turned into wind, switched on the required
illumination.  A green laser beam, designed to act as a long-range
beacon was fired vertically from the roof of the command car.  As it
punched through the cloud base and went on up, a row of lights set into
the top of the train rippled on to form a centre line and the four
edges of the flight deck were outlined in blue.

On the wide deck, atop the extra-long flight car, three sets of
arrester wires had been raised to snag the hook which had now been
lowered between the two fat rear wheels of Gus's Skyhawk, and the
ground crew, stationed in the 'duck-holes' on either side of the deck,
stood poised ready to leap into action.

Apart from the total absence of deck officers waving bats, or the
succeeding generations of electronic aids, the procedure - as noted
earlier - was essentially the same as that used for landing US Navy
jets on pre-Holocaust carriers.  But instead of several
astronomically-expensive metric tons of airframe thudding down at
speeds in excess of 120 miles per hour, the Skyhawks breezed in over
the stern at a modest thirty-five.

BB-BMMMFFF!  As Gus White snagged the second wire and touched down, the
ground crew leaped into action.  His wingman, now a mile downwind on
the same glide path would be landing in just under two and half
minutes.  More than enough time to unhook the Skyhawk from the arrester
wire, fold each wing in two places, unlock the twin tail booms, swing
the rear section downwards and underneath the wings, and run the
resulting package onto the starboard bow lift.

With Gus still in the cockpit, it dropped swiftly out of sight looking
like the crumpled creature that emerges from a chrysalis then unfolds
in the drying rays of the sun to become an elegantly-proportioned
dragonfly.  The plane was quickly wheeled into the hangar deck, the
lift came back up and - BB-BMMMFFF!  The second Skyhawk landed on,
bonking down hard on its nose wheel as the arrester wire brought it
rapidly to a halt.

Ordinarily, apart from the watch, the crew of the wagon-train would
have stood down until dawn, but the evening's activities were just
beginning.  CINC-TRAIN had decided to refuel The Lady on its outward
journey rather than get locked into sending a tank-train further north
to an uncertain rendezvous on the return journey from Iowa.  'Let's
face it,' said the tanker captain to Hartmann with disarming honesty,
'There's no point in both of us ending up with our asses stuck in the
snow."

Since The Lady had already replenished its stock of hydrogen granules
during the stop-over at the Pueblo way-station, Hartmann was directed
to hitch up two of the tank-train's hopper wagons - one at each end,
next to the power-cars.  Two more would be left at the Monroe/Wichita
interface in case The Lady needed to top up on its southward run to the
wagon-train depot at Fort Worth.  It was reassuring to hear that their
return was envisaged.

Hartmann and the men and women of his Trail-Blaze battalion set to
work, assisted by the tank-train crew and the sixty-four Pioneers from
the Pueblo way-station.

Most of them had gotten over their initial grouchiness at having their
leave abruptly postponed but whatever their feelings they were now
rostered for trail-duty just like their hosts.

A handful, led by a pugnacious lieutenant called Matt Harmer and a
VidCommTech-4 by the name of Deke Haywood, had volunteered their
services.  Buck McDonnell, better known as Big D, the Lady's Trail
Boss, gathered the remainder together before The Lady began its
crossing of the Missouri and announced in his gruff but fatherly
fashion that he sympathized with their undeserved plight.  They had, as
he put it, 'drawn the shitty end of the straw'.

However (and here the tone and tempo of his delivery changed) they had
now had two whole days in which to adjust to the situation and/or cry
their eyes out.  From here on in, he did not intend to have a
disaffected bunch of moon-faced sack-happy lump-sucking shit-assed
piss-brained Pioneers lying around feeding their faces and doing sweet
fuck-all.

Regardless of their rank or special qualifications they were, as of
now, under his orders and assigned to general duties until they
disembarked.  No slacking or malingering would be tolerated and anyone
reporting sick who was not actually dead would very soon wish he
were.

So they had better buckle to.  Over and out...

Ferrying the wagon-train across the Missouri kept both crews busy for
the next twenty-four hours.  Each of The Lady's sixteen wagons plus the
two hoppers had to be carefully loaded one at a time onto a steerable
bridging raft.  The raft, which had been assembled in advance by the
tank-train crew was mounted on two dozen large inflatable pontoons and
was powered by heavy-duty water-jet motors.  In Texas, the Inner State,
several rivers had permanent pontoon bridges made from these assemblies
and more were being installed at key points in the safer areas of the
Outer States.

The designers of the wagon-trains had solved the transmission problem
by giving each wheel its own electric motor.  Emergency batteries,
fitted in each wagon, enabled it to move backwards or forwards at low
speed under its own power.  Both sets of wheels were steerable and the
movement of the wagon could be controlled by an on-board operator, or
from the outside by means of an umbilical unit.

This facility made it relatively easy to marshal a train in the depot,
or re-sequence the wagons to meet altered operational requirements.  It
also meant that the individual wagons could be driven on and off the
bridging rafts without having to be coupled to one of the power-cars.

Once safely across and re-assembled, The Lady headed north, retracing
the line of the old US Highway 35 that linked navref Kansas City with
navref Des Moines.  It was on this leg that Ryder's timings started
going out the window.  The first flakes blew across their path as they
neared the Missouri/Iowa state line and it was not long before their
average speed dropped to around 8 mph.  The dramatic slowdown was due,
in almost equal parts, to the deepening layer of snow that cloaked the
natural hazards of the terrain and the fact that the chosen route was
criss-crossed with minor tributaries draining southwest into the
Missouri River or southeast into the Mississippi.

Approaching Des Moines with The Lady at times over axle-deep in snow,
Commander Hartmann had the genial notion of using the battery of
superheated steam jets mounted under the nose of his command car to
clear a path down to ground level.  That way, at least, they would be
able to see what they were running into.  The jets, which had been
fitted to repel close-quarter attacks by Mutes, were angled to cover
the underneath and flanks of the train without melting the armoured
rubber wheels.  If they could blast flesh clean off the bone in
seconds, snow would present no problem at all.

And so it proved.  Like all brilliant ideas, it was incredibly
simple.

The reason no one had thought of it before was because the problem
hadn't arisen.  There was only one drawback.  The superheated steam jet
system was not designed for continuous operation.  This meant frequent
stops to replenish the water tanks which, on this part of the journey,
meant filling up with melted snow.

Onwards they pressed, through pitch dark nights and days of eerie
twilight that seeped through an endless grey blanket of cloud so heavy
with snow it seemed about to collapse under its own weight.  With its
batteries of bug-eyed headlights blazing and its nose and flanks
wreathed in clouds of hissing steam and whirling snow, The Lady looked
like a latter-day Loch Ness monster, surrounded by a foaming wake as it
ploughed /ts way across the surface of a bleak Arctic sea.

By late afternoon on the 21st November, they reached Iowa City twenty
miles south of Cedar Rapids, five days behind schedule and nearly nine
days after Hartmann's dawn tryst in the shower with Colonel Marie
Anderssen.

Once again, as on their arrival at navref Kansas City, the light was
fading.  It was also snowing.  Heavily...

The next day, more snow fell - for an unbroken fourteen hours, burying
the lens housings on the tv cameras which acted as their windows on the
world.

Working under the eagle eye of Big D, groups of Trail-Blazers and
press-ganged Pioneers from Pueblo struggled to keep the roof of the
train clear of snow, using ordinary steam hoses and deck swabs.  It
proved a thankless task - like picking up leaves in an autumn gale and
by the morning of the 23rd another eight-inch thick crisp white carpet
lay waiting to be cleared.

This time, however, the roof details found themselves working under a
still blue sky.  Most TrailBlazers weren't too enthralled by the sights
and sounds of the overground but it was such a gorgeous sight, several
people - including Deke Haywood from Pueblo, who was a covert
cloud-freak - went up just to take a look and fill their lungs with
crisp, cold air.

On days like this, reflected Deke, it was hard to believe the
overground was still cloaked in an atmosphere that had to be filtered
before it was fit for Trackers to breathe.  According to the First
Family, those few deep breaths had shortened his already all-too-brief
life by a few more months.  ?What the hell.  Everybody had to die of
something.  And if you were a Tracker, it sure as hell wouldn't be of
old age...

Hartmann huddled over a map of the area with Ryder, The Lady's
navigator.  A meandering cluster of lakes and old reservoirs lay across
the shortest route linking his present position and navref Cedar
Rapids.  To get there would mean going the long way round.  In Ryder's
opinion, given the present weather conditions, it just wasn't worth the
hassle.

If CINC-TRAIN wanted them to get closer to where they thought Brickman
and his friends might be, it made more sense to push along the line of
the Interstate towards Davenport on the west bank of the Mississippi.

But as Ryder was quick to point out, that meant finding a place to
cross the Cedar River.  On the other hand, it would put them seventy
miles closer to the primary search-area, south-west of navref Gary,
Indiana.

To fly there and back from their present position plus the standard
square search-pattern when they got there meant a round trip of over
five hundred miles.  That was uncomfortably close to the limit of the
Skyhawk's range but, more importantly, it meant that any planes they
dispatched would be airborne for over four hours.  If the weather
suddenly deteriorated - and on the journey north it had proved it
could, with frightening rapidity they might not make it back to the
train.

Hartmann took the point but decided it was a risk his wingmen would
have to live - or die with.  In an exchange of messages with CINC-TRAIN
- already chafing at the time he'd taken to get as far as he had - he
obtained permission to re-route The Lady in whichever direction he
thought best, having taken into account the suitability of the terrain
and the prevailing weather.  The First Family only required two things
of him: he was to do his utmost to bring in Brickman and his
fellow-travellers, but in attempting to do so, he was not to pursue any
course of action that might jeopardize the security of the
wagon-train.

Crewmen were expendable.

The Lady from Louisiana wasn't.

It was the typical double-bind he had come to expect and one which
every wagon-train commander had to live with.

After discussing the weather situation with Captain Baxter, the Flight
Operations exec, Hartmann told him they'd been sent to recover five
'bodies' but did not identify them.  CINC-TRAIN's first transmission
had stated that the details of the mission were only to be disclosed on
a 'need-to-know' basis.  When Baxter had grasped what was required of
his ten wingmen, Hartmann called McDonnell up to the saddle and asked
him to put some men up to clear the roof.

'Start 'em on the flight-deck then work outwards, towards both ends.  A
fast clean job, Mr McDonnell.  We need to get our birds in the air by
eleven hundred hours."

'Yess-SURR!"  The Trail Boss slammed his brass-topped drill stick under
his left arm, gave Hartmann an impeccable salute then left to galvanize
his underlings.

He was a big man, above average height for a Tracker, but he was
capable of moving with surprising speed and agility.

At 0927 hours, the first two $kyhawks were catapulted off the angled
ramps at the front of the flight deck within seconds of each other.

The clouds of steam drifted round the ground crew as they quickly
dragged the launching shackles back to the start position.  Two more
Skyhawks waited their turn on the rear lifts, wings and tails still
folded, their helmeted pilots already strapped in the slim-nosed
cockpit-pods.  Behind the rear bulkhead lay the tanks of liquid methane
that powered the hyper-efficient engine mounted at the rear, its
two-bladed propeller in the vertical position, ready to turn over at
the touch of a button.

Gus White, was the first pilot away.  The only wingman to have survived
The Lady's first encounter with the Plainfolk Mutes the previous year,
Gus had been posted to The Lady along with Steve and several other
classmates.  Gus had seen them all die or disappear over tWO days of
nightmare action.  He'd been with Steve when Jodi had been lost
overboard, and he had seen Steve's Skyhawk plunge into a burning
cropfield they had both set alight with canisters of napalm.

A new section-leader with three years line experience had been drafted
in to head up the replacements - most of whom were as raw as Gus, but
after a shaky start when he'd fallen foul of Big D, he had applied
himself diligently to his allotted tasks.  Since he was also bucking
for promotion he had worked hard to make himself Captain Baxter's
blue-eyed boy.

The reward for his brown-nosing had been his appointment as deputy
section-leader.  It was a post which brought no extra credits or any
real executive clout.  The only thing the holder earned was the chance
to go boldly where no wingman had gone before.  To lead, in other
words, the more hazardous missions.  Since the post was an essential
stepping-stone to further promotion, they were risks a young ambitious
schemer had to take.

Gus White knew he was searching for five survivors from two Skyriders
that had been forced down through lack of fuel but he had not the
slightest inkling they were being lead by his ex-classmate and rival,
Steve Brickman.  And while, on occasions, he experienced a vague
nagging regret about leaving the trapped and injured Steve to burn in
that Mute cropfield he had, to all intents and purposes, wiped the
incident from his mind.

There was really nothing he could have done with a jammed gun against
so many screaming hostiles.  Right or wrong, what did it matter?  Gus
didn't believe in weighing himself down with moral burdens.  Steve
Brickman was dead.  KIA, Wyoming, June 12th, 2989.

End of story.

Except, of course, it wasn't.  And there was something else that Gus
didn't know.  Steve had silently sworn to get even.  Had Gus been aware
of what was waiting for him down the pike, he might have searched the
landscape with something less than his customary zeal.

Lieutenant Matt Harmer, who also figured on Steve's hit list since he'd
headed the welcoming committee at Pueblo, stood beside Buck McDonnell
on the empty flight and watched the four Skyhawks spread out then
disappear as they rose higher and higher into the eastern sky.

Normally, once the given task had been accomplished, Trail-Blazers
rarely lingered for any length of time on top of the train - especially
in Plainfolk territory where anyone standing in an exposed position ran
the risk of being skewered by a ten-inch bolt from a Mute crossbow.

But today wasn't like any one of the countless days spent on previous
overground fire-sweeps.  Despite having spent six years up the line,
McDonnell had never seen so much snow before - a smooth dazzling white
carpet under a vast, unblemished blue sky.  He wanted to take in the
scene for real, in its true awe-inspiring dimensions rather than in
miniature through a tv screen.

Even so, he was not a man to take needless risks just to ogle the
landscape.  As a seasoned campaigner he knew they were reasonably safe
- for the moment, anyway.  The wagon-trains were fitted with body
scanners mounted in the lead and rear command car which could detect
the presence of warm-blooded animals and differentiate between the
two-legged and four-legged variety.

The scanners were always switched on prior to any activity on the
flight deck and had been used to cover the work parties clearing the
snow off the roof.  Their invisible beams, which could calibrate and
pinpoint heat sources at a range of eight hundred yards, were linked to
the wagon-train's fire-control system.  Once a target had been located,
its position was passed directly to the gunners manning the turrets
covering the relevant sector.

That was the theory; in practice - like most electronic gizmos in the
Federation - the set-up aboard The Lady had never been 100% operational
but it had greatly reduced the number of surprise attacks.  And it
meant Big D and the lieutenant from Pueblo could relax for a few
minutes and take in the view instead of standing back to back with
their eyes peeled, pumping out adrenalin, guns cocked and trained,
ready to blow away the first thing that moved.

Harmer pivoted slowly on his heel, scanning the vast white emptiness
that surrounded them like a hungry wolf, then returned and caught
McDonnell's eye.  'The only thing that's been keeping me going up to
now is the thought I might get a chance to flatten a few lumps and
thread some beaver.  But up to now, we've rolled right past everything
the scanners picked up.  Okay, the heat is on.  But now we're here and
you promised we'd see some action.  So tell me - where are all the
fuggin' Mutes?"

'Don't worry,' said McDonnell.  'They're out there."

'So when do we get started?"

'Probably sooner than you think.  I reckon they ain't gonna take too
kindly to us barging in just when they're getting ready to celebrate
the New Year."

Harmer's narrow eyes gleamed.  'Great.  There's nothing I like better
than spoiling some lumpshit's day.

Especially when they're having a party.  That's the best time to hit
'em - when they've got nothing but smoke between their ears."

CHAPTER FOUR

Buck McDonnell was right.  There were Mutes out there and they weren't
all - as Izo Wantanabe believed - in a state of suspended animation.

While it was certainly true that, compared to the rest of the year, the
winter months were marked by long periods of sleep and inactivity, the
Plainfolk were still able, when awake, to get their brains in gear.

Like the other Iron Masters who had preceded him to the outlands, Izo
Wantanabe was, by his very nature, unable to make a dispassionate study
of Mute behaviour.

Like the Trackers, he had come imbued with an unshakeable belief in his
own superiority and full of second-hand information and preconceived
ideas about the people he would be dealing with.  None of the Resident
Agents had been in place long enough to form a detailed picture of the
daily life of Mutes during a bleak winter and, what was more, it was
not something they had been asked to record.

As a Johnny-come-lately, Izo was forced to rely on the information
gleaned by previous visitors and they - for the reasons stated above
had learned surprisingly little about the way Mutes really lived, how
they thought - or what they thought about.  As a result, Izo did not
know that one of the defensive tactics employed by Mutes was to pretend
to be even more stupid than they looked.

Many Mutes were hampered by a genetic fault that affected the link
between the part of their brain which stored acquired knowledge and
their mouth.  In computer language, you could input data but due to the
software fault, you couldn't get a print-out.  The severity of the
problem varied widely between individuals but, in a social context, it
made it difficult, and sometimes impossible, to put what they knew - as
opposed to what they had seen, thought or felt - into words.  And since
Mutes did not know how to read or write, the knowledge they possessed
often remained locked away.

In captivity, shackled and beaten, treated and worked like beasts of
burden, they became morose and silent.

'Mute', an abbreviation of mutant, took on an added meaning.  But they
were far from dumb.  In the history archives of the Federation they
were referred to as 'the wily Mute', but the attributes they were
considered to possess were low animal cunning and primal ferocity.

Courage and a lively intelligence were not qualities that could be
ascribed to subhumans.

Trackers - who believed themselves to be the only true human beings to
have survived the Holocaust knew how 'real people' were supposed to
look.  Since the Mutes did not conform to this model they were regarded
as misshapen and ugly, and this lack of symmetry, this ugliness was
proof of their sub-human status and irredeemable stupidity.

Their enemies from the dark cities beneath the deserts of the south,
convinced they were opposed by witless savages, had been lulled into a
false sense of security.

Believing themselves to be superior in both firepower and brainpower,
commanders of overground units had, on numerous occasions, made
tactical errors they would probably not have committed against a more
respected opponent.

The irony was, when the inevitable post mortem took place, the
sand-burrowers were so convinced they were the master-race they
preferred to find scapegoats among their own ranks rather than face up
to the proposition that they might have been outsmarted.

The same tactics had been employed to cope with the threat from the
east.  The Plainfolk, whose warrior ethos was based on the courage of
the individual in one-to-one combat, were quick to realize they could
not fight a war on two fronts against foes who both possessed what
Mutes regarded as weapons of mass destruction; long sharp iron that
could kill or maim whole groups of people with a single blow delivered
from a great distance.

Apart from a few bloody skirmishes when the wheel-boats had made their
first forays along the shores of the Great River, relations had been
reasonably smooth and mutually beneficial despite the fact that the
Iron Masters appeared to be calling the shots.  The leaders of the
delegations from the Mute clans who gathered annually at the trading
post were painfully aware that the barter deals negotiated by the
masked yellow dwarfs were loaded against them but it had been agreed
(amongst hereditary blood-enemies who could agree on precious little)
that a bad bargain was better than no bargain at all.

There was much to be learned, by adopting the role of the awed and not
very bright savage and much to be gained in the way of quiet
satisfaction - as was the case with the Mutes whose winter slumbers Izo
had so rudely interrupted.

As it happened, none of the inhabitants who emerged from the three
settlements he had approached on his initial sortie had seen any
arrowheads flying through the sky or coming to earth.  Given a warm
spring or summer's day, the prospect of looking for such an object and
being rewarded for finding it would have aroused their enthusiasm.

Only an idiot - or an Iron Master - could sustain the necessary level
of excitement with intermittent blizzards sweeping in from the north
over a thigh-deep layer of snow.

So the reception committees of warriors and elders had stared at him
with sleepy eyes and slack mouths, pretending not to understand.  When
all the fire-water that was on offer had been drunk by a fortunate few,
and the pompous little fart finally abandoned his attempts to persuade
every available adult to join in the search for the elusive arrowheads,
they watched him wobble off astride his strange, four-legged beast then
returned to their huts to warm their chilled bodies over blazing
hearthstones.

And while Izo and his weary escort struggled on through the snow, they
squatted on their talking mats, passed around a pipe of rainbow grass
and laughed at the Iron Master's absurd behaviour.  Only clever people,
they agreed, who used silent speech to record everything they saw and
did but understood nothing were capable of such foolishness.  Winter
the period known to the Mutes as The White Death - was the moment when
Mo-Town, the Great Sky-Mother who breathed life into the land each
spring mourned its passing.  As the last leaves were stripped from the
trees by the icy winds that came howling out of the northern wastes,
her heart grew chill and the world was covered with her frozen tears.

Everyone knew that the cloud-warriors - unlike the dead faces - had the
good sense to stay in their burrows from the end of Yellowing to the
time of the New Earth.

But not this year - as some of their blood-brothers were soon to
discover...

The same hostile weather system that had almost doubled The Lady's
journey-time to navref Iowa City had also wrecked Steve's hopes of
making a speedy getaway.  Driven by the fear that Karlstrom might send
in an MX snatch squad but without having any clear plan of action,
Steve's prime objective had been to put as much distance as possible
between themselves and the point at which they had come to earth.  But
since leaving their first campsite beneath the wing of the wrecked
Skyhawk they had been moving with painful slowness, taking several days
to cover just over sixty miles.  On two of those days, bitterly cold
winds and driving snow had prevented them from moving at all and it was
only the expert trail-craft of Cadillac and Clearwater that saved them
from dying from exposure.

Although Kelso was kept liberally dosed with pain-killer, he had
recovered from the initial shock of the accident.  The morphine
substitutes Jodi and Steve injected him with produced a state of
drowsiness interspersed with periods of lucidity.  And during these
latter moments it soon became evident that, despite his injuries, he
was as combative and caustic as ever and there were occasions when
Steve found himself wishing Kelso had broken his jaw instead of his
pelvis.

Day eight dawned bright and clear.  Stepping out from the shelter of
the pine trees, they scanned the cloudless blue sky and the dazzling
white landscape.  An overnight frost had brushed a thin layer of ice
crystals over the undulating carpet of snow, making it gleam and
sparkle with countless points of rainbow-tinted light.

It was a scene which, on any other occasion, would have inspired
feelings of pure joy at just being alive but, despite its breathtaking
beauty, the four stretcher bearers took in the view then eyed each
other with something less than total enthusiasm.  The fact that there
was no razor-sharp wind and no threatening cloud-wall of snow lurking
on the horizon meant there was no excuse for not moving forward.  But
the same good weather could also entice the warriors of hostile Mute
clans out into the open in search of fresh meat.

Each of them knew that the atrocious conditions they had encountered
since landing were the main reasons why the Plainfolk clans who
inhabited the area had not put in an appearance.  So far.  Without
having it spelled out, everyone knew there was no way they could reach
Wyoming without stepping on the turf of a hostile clan.

Snow or no snow, it was only a matter of time before they would have to
face their first challenge.  And again, without having someone spell it
out they also knew the first would probably be their last.  If attacked
by a determined and numerically superior group the handguns they
carried would only afford them a brief respite and would probably be
more effective if turned against themselves.  Suicide was infinitely
preferable to an excruciating death through ritual mutilation.

The subject of how to defend themselves when this inevitable - and
terminal - encounter took place had been broached on several occasions
as they sat huddled over a fire inside their overnight shelters but no
one had put forward a coherent plan.  Jodi was left with the mpression
it had been tacitly agreed that if the problem did arise, Clearwater
would somehow use the inexplicable power she possessed to get them out
of trouble.

Since the first day, when the four of them had staggered like drunken
sailors through a blizzard carrying Dave Kelso's stretcher
shoulder-high, they had got themselves better organized.  The hatch
cover to which he was strapped had been turned into a sled which they
pulled along with a lot less effort two at a time.  It gave Kelso a
much smoother ride and meant that the two who weren't pulling could
hump the homemade backpacks into which their supplies had been
loaded.

Towards noon, the trouble they'd been expecting appeared in the shape
of a solitary fur-clad Mute warrior who ambled up out of a dip in the
ground and stopped as he caught sight of Cadillac and Clearwater who
were walking about a hundred yards ahead of Steve, Jodi and Kelso.

Everyone froze - including the Mute, who was carrying a crossbow.

Steve weighed up the distance between them and decided there wasn't a
lot he could do.  The warrior was a couple of hundred yards away from
where he stood - too far even for Cadillac to pick off with a
handgun.

And it was just as well none of them tried because more fur-clad Mutes
rose into view on either side of the first.

'Shee-itt..."  breathed Jodi.  'What the eft-eft are we gonna do?"

'Stay calm and start counting,' said Steve.  There were thirty of them
- five hands - spread out in a long line that started behind Steve's
right shoulder then angled in past Cadillac and Clearwater barring the
way ahead.  Roughly a third of them carried crossbows; the rest were
armed with a mixture of spiked head-crushers and knife-sticks.

Without the rapid intervention of Talisman, the presence of so many
bowmen beyond the reach of their handguns made the outcome of any fight
a foregone conclusion.

Steve and Jodi watched with hated breath as Clearwater raised her
right hand and made the traditional sign of greeting.  As she did so,
Cadillac produced the fat-barrelled pistol he'd taken from the
Skyrider's rescue kit and fired a white signal flare vertically into
the air.

'Sheee-ehhh!"  The sibilant Mute cry that signified amazement, awe and
admiration burst from the throats of the warriors as they watched the
dazzling fireball rise some two hundred feet before curving over their
heads and falling to earth behind them, leaving a drifting trail of
smoke to mark its passage through the air.

It was the equivalent of the 'white arrow', the crossbow bolt that
carried a smouldefing sheaf of dried grass aloft as a signal that the
hunter or the hunted wished to parley.

After a suspense-filled moment when nobody in the Mute line reacted,
the four warriors in the centre went into a huddle then raised their
right arms and returned Clearwater's greeting.  There was then a
second, longer confab between the leader of the Mute posse and
Cadillac.  From the amount of head-nodding, some sort of agreement
seemed to have been reached.  Steve eyed Jodi and let out a husky sigh
of relief.

A rapid tap-tap-tap drew their attention down to Kelso whose
hatch-sledge lay between them.  He was knocking on the inside of the
perspex canopy that covered him from head to hip with the knuckles of
his good left hand.  Jodi hunkered down beside him.

'What is it, Dave?"

'Get this cover off a me and give me a gun!"  The words came out as a
hoarse, muffled whisper.

'Are you crazy?  What for?"

'What a dumb question!  If we're going' down under this heap of
shit-balls, I wanna take one.with me!"

Jodi reacted with an angry gasp then slapped the canopy alongside his
face.  'Dave!  Do everyone a favour will you!?  Just go back to
sleep!"

Jodi stood up in time to see Cadillac trudging towards them through the
snow carrying both backpacks.

Clearwater was still engrossed in conversation with the four leaders of
the Mute posse.

Cadillac handed Clearwater's pack to Jodi and gave his own to Steve.

'I don't want to sound too optimistic but we may have struck lucky.  I
was worried we'd run into one of the D'Troit clans but these guys are
M'Waukee Mutes - braves from the Clan Kojak."

'Aren't the M'Waukee supposed to be ffiends of the She-Kargo?"

Cadillac responded to Steve's question with a faintly patronizing
smile.  'That's an over-simplification.  Even clans from the same
blood-line will kill each other to protect their turf.  Let's just say
they dislike the She-Kargo slightly less than they dislike the
D'Troit."

'Terfific..."  Steve eyed Jodi.  'So where does that leave us?"

'Alive - for the moment."

Jodi surveyed the impassive line of Mutes.  The fact that they weren't
psyching themselves up with warlike noises somehow made the situation
seem more threatening.  She nudged Steve.  'I don't get it, By rights
these guys should be leaping all over us.  Are they frightened by
signal flares?"

'No.  Must have been something he said."  Steve turned to Cadillac.

'What did you do - hit 'em with some fancy fire-speech?"

'On the contrary.  It was what they had to say that floored me."

Cadillac glanced over his shoulder at Clearwater then ran his eyes
slowly along the line of Mutes before coming back to Steve and Jodi.

'The reason we're not dead is because they regard us as something
special."

'Special...?"

'Yes.  They've been expecting us."  Cadillac saw them exchange puzzled
looks and explained.  'The Kojak's have got a wordsmith like Mr Snow.

He is the guardian of the Talisman Prophecy but he has also kept alive
another centuries-old prediction which - on the face of it - appears
to concern us.  It's very strange..."

Steve blew his top.  'Caddy, for chrissakes spare us the suspense!  We
appreciate the build-up but this isn't the time or place!  Just give us
the bottom line!"

'Okay.  Hang on to this.  Besides teaching them about Talisman, their
wordsmith has been telling them for years that one day ". . . a small
group of Plainfolk The Chosen - would fly out of the east in the
bellies of iron birds"--' 'I don't believe it--' 'Hold on, I haven't
finished!  "... and that their arrival would herald the birth of
Talisman and the return of The Lost Ones" - the Mutes held in
Ne-Issan."

'I see... ' mused Steve.  'And this is why they haven't killed us."  He
looked across at Jodi.  'What d'you think?"

Cadillac cut in before she got her mouth open.

'Christo!  What a dumb question!  It's what they think that matters!

If they believe we're "The Chosen", why disillusion them?  Let's go
along with it.  I mean, who knows?  It might actually be true."

'It might,' admitted Steve.  'If you believe that stuff."

He eyed the motionless warriors.  'Did you tell them we flew here from
Ne-Issan?"

'No."

'So how did they know about the "iron birds"?"

'The same way as the Plainfolk knew about cloud-warriors and iron
snakes centuries before wagon-trains emerged from beneath the deserts
of the south.

That's the magic of prophecy."

'Yeah .  . ."

Jodi, who had been following their conversation with growing puzzlement
said: 'Would you mind telling me what all this iron bird shit is
about?

And who or what is Talisman?"

Steve flagged her down.  'Some other time, Jodi.  So where do we go
from here?"

Cadillac smiled.  'Well, for the moment, you three aren't going
anywhere.  We can't risk Kelso shooting his mouth off."

'Ayy-men to that,' said Jodi.

'They wanted to take us all back to their settlement so their wordsmith
could question us but I told them our "blood-brother" had contracted a
malady that lurks in the land of the dead-faces.  And until he got
better, he should not be brought into the settlement.  I explained that
we were not infectious.  It was only young children in the general
vicinity of the invalid who were in danger."

'Neat.  So we stay and you go..."

Steve looked at Jodi.  His eyebrows formed the silent question.

'That's okay by me, Steve.  Clearwater gave us all great paintjobs but
even if Dave kept his mouth shut neither of us know the ropes.  You may
be able to wing it but it's not gonna take 'em long to cotton on to the
fact we aren't the real thing."

'Yeah, you're right."  Steve slapped his fur-clad hands together.

'Okay - how does it play from here?"

'They're taking me and Clearwater back with them to meet their
wordsmith.  That's why I'm leaving you the backpacks."

'And what do we do,' asked Jodi.  'Camp here?"

'Yes.  There shouldn't be any trouble.  We're on their turf."  Cadillac
made a quick appraisal of their surroundings and pointed to a nearby
stand of tall pines whose lower branches drooped under the weight of
the accumulated layers of snow.  'That looks like a pretty good spot.

Why don't you check it out?"

'We will,' said Steve, feeling distinctly upstaged.

'Where're they taking you?"

'They didn't say exactly.  Just somewhere north of he re."

'So you can't tell us when you'll be back..."

'No.  But these guys are travelling light - which means their
settlement can't be all that far away.  My guess is we'll be back in
the next couple of days."

'Or never,' said Jodi.

Cadillac replied with a philosophical shrug.  'Depends on how we make
out with their wordsmith.  If we can convince him we're the real thing
we may be offered a warm bed and free meals for the rest of the
winter."

Steve absorbed the scenario with a thoughtful nod.

'That takes care of you two, and maybe Jodi and me at a pinch.  But
that leaves Kelso out in the cold - or is his "malady" going to be
suddenly and magically cured?"

'Be realistic, Brickman.  We both know there's only one cure for Kelso
and--' 'Now wait a minute--!"

Cadillac rounded on Jodi.  'No!  You listen!  Because without me and
Clearwater your life's not worth shit!

Even if Mr Snow was here right now he couldn't put Kelso back
together.

He needs major surgery - and only your people can handle that--'
'But--' 'Look!  I'm not going to argue about this.  Kelso's your
problem - and you've got two days to make up your mind what to do about
it."

'You miserable piece of lumpshit!"  Jodi lunged at Cadillac's throat.

Steve saw Clearwater start running towards them as he stepped in
between the warring pair, deflecting Jodi's hands before they could do
any damage.  'Cool it!

Christopher Columbus!  What d'you wanna do - blow the whole deal?  I'
She rounded on Steve, eyes blazing.  'I'm not going to let you kill
him!"

'Shut your face!"  hissed Cadillac.  'I'll give you this one last
time."  He lowered his voice further.  'The one chance we have of
getting out of here alive is by pretending to be who these guys think
we are.  Which means passing you two off as Plainfolk Mutes.  And that
means,' - he jabbed a finger at Jodi - 'you gotta act like one!  For
the Plainfolk, death is just part of a continuing cycle of existence.

When a warrior is badly injured--' 'Yeah?  Well, you're gonna have to
get rid of me too!"

Cadillac waved dismissively.  'That's it.  I've had enough.  You handle
it, Brickman."  He turned away as Clearwater arrived anxious to
discover what all the shouting was about.  Cadillac put her in the
picture.

Clearwater came over in an attempt to calm things down.  'Jodi, please,
I know how you feel about Kelso but you're only prolonging his agony.

If you'll just let me explain--' 'I don't wanna hear any
explanations!"

yelled Jodi.

'You can both go fuck yourself!"

Steve wrestled with her as she tried to break free.

'Jodi!  For chrissakes!  Keep your voice down!"

Cadillac strode off purposefully to rejoin the leaders of the Mute
posse.  Halfway there, he looked back and summoned Clearwater with an
imperious wave.

Clearwater signalled him to be patient.  She didn't want to leave until
Steve and Jodi had finished arguing.

'I'm serious, Brickman.  I'm not gonna let you do it."

'Look!  No one's gonna kill Dave.  I promise!  I'm on your side in
this.  We'll sort something out!  Okay?"

'If you say so."  She stopped struggling but her body was still shaking
with anger.

'Good.  Now back off and simmer down.  Hell - I mean - after all we've
been through.  it'd be stupid to blow it now."

Jodi eyed them both resentfully.  'Yeah, it would be, wouldn't it?"

She knelt down to check on Kelso.  He had drifted off to sleep.

Clearwater took Steve aside.  'Will she be all right?"

'Yeah.  No problem.  It's you I'm concerned about.  At times you've
been barely able to put one foot in front of another.  Are you gonna be
able to handle this run?"

She laid a hand on his arm.  'Don't worry about me.

"Mutes feel no pain" - isn't that what they say?"  Her eyes became
clouded.  'I don't want to leave you but I have to go with Cadillac.

You understand why, don't you?"

'Sure.  Take care.  Of him and yourself."

'We'll be back soon.  I promise."

'I'll hold you to that."  Steve stepped back and shooed her away.

'Better hurry.  Your lord and master is getting impatient."

Preceded by six Kojak braves and flanked by the remaining twenty-four,
Cadillac and Clearwater jogged away through the snow without a
backwards glance.

Steve watched them until they disappeared behind a fold in the ground
then looked down at Jodi.

'Cadillac's right,' she said, shouldering one of the backpacks.

'There's no point in arguing.  One more, one less.  what does it
matter?  That's the way lump-heads think."  Her eyes met Steve's as she
straightened up.  'I guess that's the difference between them and us.

That's supposed to make us the good guys and them the bad."

'It's not that simple, Jodi."

She gave a derisive laugh.  'No.  With you it never is.

But then, you're not really one of us any longer are you?"

They picked up the rope leads of Kelso's sledge and headed towards the
trees.  Neither of them spoke for a long time.

Led by Gus White, the four Skyhawks climbed to five thousand feet and
flew due east in parallel lanes, each pilot keeping visual contact with
his neighbour.  Forty odd minutes after take-off, the patrol crossed
the Mississippi, a smudgy grey line that meandered across the
snow-covered landscape like the first, haphazard scrawl made by a young
child on a pristine white page.

An hour later, the northern' hOSt wingman caught sight of the lower end
of Lake Michigan.  It was his first sight of one of the Great Lakes.

Neither he nor his companions had ever seen so much water before.  In
the centre of the curving shoreline, between Izo Wantanabe's base at
Benton Harbour and the legendary rainbow-ice city from which the
She-Kargo Mutes had sprung, lay navref Gary, Indiana.

On the map-table around which all ten wingmen had gathered to be
briefed by Baxter, the Flight Ops Exec, navref Gary was positioned
halfway along the top edge of a shaded rectangle which, on the ground,
was fifty miles square.  This was the primary search area.

Somewhere within it were two Skyriders - either whole or in pieces.

The first task of the air patrols launched by The Lady was to discover
where the planes had come down.  Having done that, they were then
required to establish the fate of the five people known to have been
aboard.  If they were not lying dead in the wreckage, they must be
presumed to be alive and proceeding westwards on foot.  If so, the
flight-section was required to make a major effort to discover their
present whereabouts and assist in their recovery.

This was the reason, continued Baxter, why four sets of ski attachments
- which would allow the Skyhawks to land and take-off from snow - had
been fabricated by the engineers during the 'journey north from designs
supplied over the video-link by Houston/GC.

Gus White asked the question that was on everyone's mind.  'Are we
working to a time limit on this, sir?"

'Nope.  We're here for as long as it takes,' replied 'Baxter.

It sounded ominous.  Since nobody wanted to be out here in the first
place, it meant the rest of the crew would be constantly on their
backs, pressurizing them to get the job done so that everyone could get
home in time for New Year.

But there was more.  Baxter had concluded the briefing by applying
another turn of the screw.  Whilst in the search area, and on the
outward and return legs they were also to record the position and size
of any Mute settlements and take note of the level of over-ground
activity.  But they were not, repeat not, under any circumstances to
attack any ground targets - even if they came under fire from the
ground - without first obtaining specific authorization to do so from
Hartmann himself.

The only situation in which the use of weapons might be sanctioned
would be to cover a landing to investigate clearly identified wreckage
or to evacuate survivors.  Gee whizz.  thanks a bunch, sir...

Picking the mutinous undercurrent from his ten pilots, Baxter
privately questioned the wisdom of 'nonaggressive' patrols but got no
joy from Hartmann.  The wagon-train commander shared his reservations
but he had been given clear and precise instructions by CINC-TRAIN who,
in turn, were acting on orders emanating from the Oval Office.

Karlstrom, the Operational Director of AMEXICO was the prime mover
behind the search for Steve and his companions but the signals were
prefixed with 'Eagle One'; the President-General's code-name.  The
acronym AMEXICO never appeared on any video-screen or hard copy and
this 'invisibility' was one reason why, over the centuries, the
organization's existence had been successfully concealed from all but a
chosen few.

From the moment that Kelso had broadcast his covert May-Day signal and
alerted the organization to what had taken place at Long Point,
AMEXICO's sophisticated intercept system had been monitoring the range
of radio frequencies utilized by the stolen Skyriders.

During the brief exchange with Kelso via the airborne signals unit
there had not been time to query the fuel state of the two aircraft.

Kelso had been instructed to fake engine trouble, providing him with a
valid excuse to change course, flying around Lake Michigan instead of
across it.  With Cadillac locked in the cargo hold, Brickman would be
obliged to follow.  A lot depended on how well Kelso stage-managed
events but he was to try and land in Iowa, as close to the Mississippi
as possible.

It was only after contact with Long Point had been restored that
Karlstrom learned the aircraft had taken off without being refuelled.

By then it was impossible to contact Kelso and modify the arrangements
without risking blowing his cover.

The rapidly-emptying fuel tanks had provided him with an even better
excuse for changing course but the Skyriders had been forced down, in
the middle of a snowstorm, some two hundred miles short of the point
Karlstrom had selected.  The heated conversations between Steve, Jodi
and Kelso about their predicament had been recorded but because they
had gone off the air prematurely, AMEXICO's signals unit had been
unable to obtain an exact fix on the point where they had landed.  And
they had stayed off the air ever since.

Now, almost two weeks later, Karlstrom was unaware that Kelso - the man
he was counting on to keep him posted - was lying with his broken body
strapped to a make-shift sledge and that the compact but powerful
walkie-talkie he had used to such good effect at Long Point had been
crushed when he'd wrapped his Skyrider around the unyielding trunk of a
big pine.

Given Brickman's action against his fellow operatives at Long Point,
Karlstrom had decided against sending in more mexicans.  The first
three had only been temporarily disabled, but had Brickman's attempt to
steal the aircraft misfired, the consequences might have been a great
deal more serious - perhaps fatal.

In seeking Side-Winder's help to escape from Ne-Issan with Cadillac and
Clearwater, Brickman had spoken of the need to reach Wyoming to capture
his 'third target': Mr Snow - the most powerful summoner known to the
First Family.  If this was true, if Brickman was only pretending to
have changed sides, Karlstrom could foresee a situation where - in
order to reinforce his credibility as a dependable ally of the Clan
M'Call - he might be obliged to take more drastic measures against any
new attempt by AMEXICO to bring in Cadillac and Clearwater before he
was ready to deliver them.  His original assignment had been to capture
all three.

Perhaps the plan he'd worked out needed the presence of Cadillac and
Clearwater to bait the trap for Mr Snow...

So be it.  If Brickman believed he could pull off a hat-trick there was
no point in throwing away highly-trained men who could be used more
effectively elsewhere.  Far better to give him as much rope as he
needed.  As long as he delivered the goods what did it matter if he
ended up hanging himself?  That was why Karlstrom - who flattered
himself that his own devious mind was more than a match for Steve's had
selected The Lady from Louisiana to conduct a search of the area.

Since Brickman and his friends lacked the necessary clothes and
equipment to make an overland trek in the depths of winter, he might
have second thoughts about going it alone.  If the correct signals were
received, assistance - in whatever measure required - would be quickly
and discreetly provided.

On the other hand, if sacrificial goats were needed, they too would be
provided - from amongst the crew of The Lady.

The whole exercise rested on the assumption that the principal players
had survived the forced landing and its attendant dangers.  Through his
daily contacts with Roz Brickman, Steve's psychic kin-sister, Karlstrom
was confident they had.  So, barring some unforeseen disaster, it would
only be a matter of time before Steve and Jodi Kazan came up against
their old bunkmates.

Yes... It would be an interesting test of her loyalty and the extent of
his duplicity.

Cadillac saw two of the patrolling Skyhawks pass overhead as he and
Clearwater jogged northwards with their escort of warriors.  For a
brief instant, the posse halted and stared open-mouthed at the
'arrowheads'.

Several braves armed their cross-bows but Cadillac advised them,
through their leader, not to waste their precious bolts.  The craft
were too high for their skins to be pierced even by a well-aimed
shot.

Through their contacts at the trading-post, the Clan Kojak knew of
these craft and were aware that their appearance usually signalled the
presence of one of the dreaded iron snakes, but up to that moment, no
arrowheads had ever appeared east of the Mississippi.

That in itself was amazing but what were they doing here during the
White Death when, according to the She-Kargo, the iron snakes - having
fed on the blood of the Plainfolk - crawled back to their lairs beneath
the Deserts of the South?

Death Leopard, the leader of the posse, waved the column forward.

Clearwater, tight-lipped but uncomplaining, kept pace using the mental
powers that Mutes possessed to block off the pain from her badly
bruised knees.  Beside her, Cadillac was quietly pleased to discover
that he was not short of breath despite the lack of practice.

Glancing up from time to time he saw the two aircraft hold the same
steady eastward course, becoming tiny specks that were soon swallowed
up by the unbroken blue.  He believed he knew why they were here but
this was not the moment to speak of such things.

On the journey to the search area, Gus White's patrol spotted a handful
of settlements and a number of ground movements.  All four pilots would
dearly have loved to indulge in some low-level strafing but the plastic
muzzle caps of their nose-mounted machine guns had been taped on to
catch anyone tempted to violate the order not to fire.

Failing to find any sign of the crashed Sky-Riders within the allotted
time, Gus ordered the others to head back to The Lady and continued the
search until he had just barely enough fuel to make it home.  He had
been secretly hoping he might locate one or both of the aircraft and
thus take the entire credit himself instead of getting into an argument
with the others about who saw what first.  In this he was destined to
be disappointed but he turned for home content in the knowledge that
the extra effort would not go unnoticed by the top brass.

He locked on to The Lady's radio beam and gradually lost altitude,
levelling out at two thousand feet in order to get a closer look at the
snow-covered world below.

As soon as Kelso had been installed under the close-packed groups of
pines, Steve left Jodi in charge and went out with a brace of hand-guns
in the hope of felling some fresh meat.  In the time they'd been
overground, both Jodi and Kelso had overcome the revulsions all
Trackers had towards eating the real thing - no easy task for someone
raised on a diet of synthesized soya bean pap.

Steve had promised to be back in an hour but it was close on two before
Jodi sighted him through the 'scope she'd been using to scan the
surrounding landscape.  Her relief at his return was tinged with
disappointment when she saw he was empty-handed.

She went out to meet him.  'One of those days, huh?"

'Yeah."  He rubbed his wounded thigh.  'Saw all kinds of stuff out
there but it was either too fast on its feet or too far away."

'Never mind, we can always open - ' Jodi broke off as Steve's attention
fastened on something in the sky.

Following his gaze, she saw the blue-grey speck and hurriedly focused
the 'scope on it.  The blurred image resolved itself into a
straight-winged aircraft painted in the standard Federation blue and
flying directly towards them.

Jodi gasped as she caught sight of its white wingtip markings.  'I
don't believe this - Steve!  Look!  It's from The Lady!"  Before her
involuntary separation from the wagon-train during the battle of the
Now and Then River, Jodi had been a member of The Lady's crew for five
years, rising from wingman to section leader.  'Christo!  Talk about
luck!  D'you realize what this means?"

Steve, who had only served aboard for some three

months before being shot down, didn't share her sudden gush of
nostalgia.  He took a brief look through the 'scope.  'Yeah.  I'll tell
you exactly what this means.  That plane up there is one of the new
model Skyhawks I told you about.  We're looking at the wrong end of a
six-barrelled machine gun!"  The information didn't appear to
register.

'So what?

Don't you understand?  This changes everything!"  'You're right.  We're
in even bigger trouble than we were before."  Steve pulled her back
under cover of the pine trees where they had set up camp.

Kelso's improvised stretcher lay on the far side of the bivouac area.

His face was turned away from them and he appeared to be sleeping.

Steve turned back to Jodi and sank to his knees, pulling her down with
him.  He held up a warning finger as he let go of her wrist.  'Calm
down, okay?  I can tell from your face your brain's working overtime.

I don't know what you're cooking up but if it's what I think it is, you
can forget it!"  It was Jodi who now grabbed hold of him.  She seized
his left forearm with both hands and shook it excitedly.

'Listen!  If Hartmann and Big D are still aboard, there won't be any
trouble!  If I can make contact with them and get back on board I can
explain what happened to me!'

'And...?"

'Brickman!  I did five operational tours with those two guys!  If they
testify on my behalf I'd have a better chance of getting a fair shake
from a board of Assessors!  I could be reinstated!"  'That's what they
want you to think,' said Steve.  'For chrissakes, Jodi!  The
Federation's got at least twenty wagon-trains on the ,overground.  Do
you think it's just a coincidence that plane just happens to be from
The Lady?"

Jodi's excitement faltered momentarily.  'It's the first time to my
knowledge that a wagon-train has ever made an offensive sweep at this
time of year.  But apart from that, the fact that it's The Lady who's
prowling around out there doesn't strike me as being particularly
sinister."

'Really?  What d'you think she's doing here?"

'Hunting Mutes, what else?  You've seen for yourself there's plenty of
'em around."

'C'mon, Jodi.  You can do better than that.  That guy up there was
looking for

'How d'you figure that out?"

'What's the matter with you?  You got frostbite on the brain?  When
that ape Side-Winder woke up and found us gone, he knew where we were
heading--'

'How?"

'Because, like a fool, I told him!  And those two pilots knew just how
far we could get on the fuel that was left in the tanks!  Steve shook
his head and cursed under his breath.  'We should have shot the
bastards... ' Steve's eyes hardened.  'Kelso was going to and--'

'I know.  I stopped him."

'Big mistake.  But I still take the booby prize.  We should have burned
those Skyriders instead of just leaving 'em standing there like a
couple of signposts."

'Without bodies inside that wouldn't have fooled anybody for long.  And
although I've never flown anything that wasn't battery powered I would
guess that planes with empty fuel tanks don't catch fire unless someone
puts a torch to 'em."

'No... you're right,' muttered Steve.  'But with this snow covering
what was left of them they'd have been a lot harder to find.  Once they
pin-point those planes - if they haven't spotted them already - they'll
know we're out here.  We only saw one today but they must have the
whole flight-section patrolling this area."

'D'you think he spotted us?"

'Hard to say.  There's plenty of tracks out there, ours and the ones
made by the Kojaks.  But it doesn't matter because unless someone
plants a big arrow besides ours there ain't no way they're gonna be
able to spot the difference."

'Do you think they'll come back?  The planes I mean."

'Yeah.  Bound to.  I'm only guessing here, but given the time of day
and the fact that he was flying due west, I'd say he was probably
heading for home.  So where would you say that puts The Lady - on the
far side of the Mississippi?"

'Sounds reasonable .  . ."

They consulted the map together.  The Mississippi River wasn't
depicted.  The left hand edge ran down through Joliet, Illinois.

'Terrific..."  Steve shoved his half of the map towards Jodi.  'I still
don't think Hartmann's gonna put any line-men across the water.  My
geography's a little hazy but I reckon we must be about a hundred,
maybe a hundred and fifty miles from the river."

Jodi smoothed out the crumpled map.  'At least..."

'Well, you know him better than I do but I can't see Hartmann sending a
combat team that far out on the limb without the proper backup - can
you?"

'No."  Jodi chewed on her lip.  'So .  . . what happens now?"

'For the moment, nothing.  We sit tight and stay under cover until we
find out what kind of a deal Cadillac and Clearwater have managed to
put together."

'But suppose there isn't a deal?  What do we do if they don't come back
in a couple of days like they said?  How long do we wait here - for
ever?"

Steve sighed impatiently.  'Jodi, if there isn't a deal, we'll know
soon enough.  Those Kojak braves'Il be swarming all over us!"  Jodi
considered this unappealing prospect with a thoughtful nod then said:
'Lemme make you a proposition.  You were sent out to bring in those two
smart Mutes.  Okay.  With some help from Dave and me, you got 'em out
of Ne-Issan.  But now they've gone - and they might not be back.  So
before we find ourselves up shit creek without a paddle, I suggest we
cut our losses and try to rejoin The Lady."

Steve gave her a disbelieving stare.  'Are you crazy?"

'Brickman, be realistic.  What chance do we have out here?"

'The same chance as everyone else!  You made it through one winter.

You can do it again."

'Last year I was one of ninety renegades in a highly organized group.

Run by Malone, remember?"

'I'm not likely to forget."  Steve's laugh had a bitter edge to it.  'I
also haven't forgotten he managed to lose over thirty breakers,
including you and Dave, to the M'Calls.  Some organizer!"

'Okay, so he makes mistakes too.  But he was onto your number in nought
seconds flat."

'Yeah, that's right.  He was..."

Jodi lowered her voice.  'The point I'm trying to make is, I was with
my own kind.  I don't trust that bunch of Mutes your two smoothies are
trying to do business with.

Like I said, those lumps are soon gonna find out I'm not regulation
issue, but even if there was some way to swing it I'm not prepared to
come with you if it means dumping Dave."

'Jodi!  For chrissakes, be reasonable!  We've done our best for the
guy.  Most people would have put a bullet through him and left him in
the wreckage!"

'Yeah?  Well, I'm not most people.  You promised me no one would kill
him - that we'd work something out.

Now it sounds like you're ready to hit the Delete button.

Whose side are you on, Brickman?"

'Yours.  At least I'm trying to be - but it's not easy when you keep
changing your fucking mind!"

The accusation riled her.  'Jeer!  You got a nerve!  You chew me out
for switching tracks but you been rewriting the programme ever since we
ran into each other back in Nebraska.  First you tell me you're dressed
up like a lump-sucker just to save your hide.  It then turns out you're
an undercover Fed out to kidnap some smart Mutes - and you lay that
True Blue stuff on me and how helpin' you will save the day and your
kin-sister's ass.

'Finally, at first hiccup -' when Kelso and I start having second
thoughts - you're ready to dump little sister and kiss goodbye to the
Federation!  It just doesn't figure.

You're up to something, Brickman.  This ain't exactly the time and
place to fall out but the fact is, I don't trust you."

'Yeah .  . . ' Steve let out a long, weary sigh.  'You're right to be
suspicious, Jodi, but you're reading things the wrong way.  I was
pressured into this operation by threats against Roz.  And yes, I did
ask for help from the Federation.  If it hadn't been for them we would
never have gotten out alive.  I promised I'd help you escape from
Ne-Issan and I did.  But I never intended to go back in."

'So why all the talk about me being True Blue and how we were all going
to be heroes?"

That's simple.  I couldn't do it without you.  But for us to escape I
had to work with the Federation and you had to agree.  Sooner or later
you'd have asked where all the hardware was coming from - so I had to
appeal to your loyalty.  One Lindbergh Baby to another.

'When we talked after we'd been captured by the M'Calls you were pretty
negative about the Federation so when you agreed to help I couldn't be
sure whether you'd had a permanent change of heart, or whether you were
just hitching a ride on the wagon."

Steve paused and watched the colour flood into Jodi's cheeks.  'I
didn't find out you'd been stringing me along until we were in that
inflatable on our way to Long Point."

'I didn't lie to you, Brickman.  I was ready and willing to go back
in.

It was just, well.  that whole set-up at Bu-faro.  And that guy
Side-Winder, not just painted up but with lumps stuffed in his face!

The discovery that the Family had people working hand-in-glove with
those dinks spooked me.  It suddenly made me realize we were just a
small part of a much bigger deal and I felt..."

'Expendable...?  We've never been anything else, Jodi."

'Yeah, strange... I don't know why it came as such a shock."

'That's because until we broke loose and were able to give our brains
some elbow room it never occurred to us that there might be an
alternative to what was on offer.

From the moment we were old enough to understand it's been drummed into
us that the only reason for a Tracker's existence is to die so that the
dream of the First Family can be fulfilled.  The conquest of the
Blue-Sky World...

'But no one has ever questioned their right to it - or whether it's
worth the lives that have been lost, the sacrifices that have been
made, and the untold numbers that still have to die before they
repossess the overground."

'It's not just their dream,' said Jodi.  'It's something we all
share.

Well, most of us..."

Steve picked up the 'scope and moved to where he could see the western
half of the sky through the branches.  The Skyhawk was now a long way
away, a tiny dot on the vast, cloudless yellow canvas that hung above
the western horizon.

He returned and crouched down facing Jodi.  'The question is - if that
dream becomes reality, what will happen to the Plainfolk?"

Jodi shrugged.  'If the Federation gets its way, I guess there won't be
any."

Steve found Roz's words on his lips.  'Don't they have a right to
exist?"

Jodi responded with a blank stare.  'I don't know what you're getting
at."

'They're people Jodi!  Human beings, like us!  Our ancestors were their
ancestors too!"

Jodi was unmoved.  'So what?  If it's true, which I doubt, that was a
long long time ago.  And even if you could prove it, who'd wanna
believe you?  D'you think everyone's gonna kiss and make up after all
the sacrifices that generations of Trackers have made?  Stop trying to
kid yourself, Brickman.  Lump-heads and breakers don't mix.  Whether
you're inside or outside the Federation, they're the enemy and always
will be.  If we don't kill them, they'll kill us."

'The M'Calls didn't kill you and the other guys."

'No.  They sold us down the river so the Iron Masters could stick it to
us instead!"  'Haven't you learned anything since you've been out
here?!"  hissed Steve.  'Cadillac and Clearwater helped us escape!  If
it wasn't for her we wouldn't be here!"

'And we helped them.  But it's different now.  In Ne-Issan, we had a
common enemy - the Iron Masters.

That deal fell apart the moment we reached Plainfolk territory.  We're
back in their country.  They're amongst their own kind.  Just look at
the way Cadillac's behaving."

Steve nodded.  'He has been coming on a little strong..."

'You can say that again.  A couple of weeks ago he was falling apart
and you had to glue him back together one day at a time.  Now he's
behaving like an arrogant sonofabitch!"  snapped Jodi.  'That may be
okay by you but he's not walking over me I' Steve appraised her
thoughtfully.  'You know what?  I think all this guff you've been
laying on me about Us and Them, who did what to who, and whether you
can trust me or not is pure buffalo shit.  This is really about Kelso,
isn't it?  You've got it into your head that if we can get him aboard
The Lady--' 'What other chance does he have?"  cried Jodi.  'C'mon!

There's a complete combat surgical team riding around in that
blood-wagon!  If we could arrange for a pickup, they could get to work
within minutes of him getting there!"

Steve glanced over at Kelso.  He hadn't moved.

Maybe he was dead.  Some chance.  Good of' Dave wasn't the kind of guy
who'd do everyone a favour by going quietly .  . .

He turned back to Jodi.  'They could, but now you're kidding
yourself.

You know as well as I do they're not gonna put Kelso on the operating
table.  They're gonna put three rounds into his brain.  He's a
renegade, remember?"

'You're wrong.  He isn't..."

Steve frowned.  'What d'you mean?"

'He's an undercover Fed.  Just like you."  She watched Steve trying to
grapple with this revelation.  'You don't believe me, do you?"

'How long have you known about this?"

'Since we left Long Point.  D'you remember me coming back from the
beach store ahead of Dave and how we sat there with the motors running
wondering where the hell he'd got tot 'Yeah..."

'Well, while I was cursing him with every name I could think of, I
fiddled around with a few of the knobs and switches and... I
accidentally turned on the tail end of a radio transmission."  'Go on
.

. ."  'It was Dave."

'You sure about this?"

'Absolutely.  He was talking to Sky Bucket Three, the same bunch your
friend with the lumps in his face got in touch with just after we
landed at Long Point."

'Did you manage to get a handle on what Kelso and this Sk/Bucket were
talking about?"

'Not really.  Skybucket was relaying instructions from someone called
Mother.  That make any sense to you?"

Steve's face gave nothing away.  'A little..."

'Mother' was the soubriquet coined by AMEXICO operatives for
Karlstrom.

It had entered their private language over a generation ago and had
proved so popular, the then Operations Director had allowed it to
supersede his official code-name MX-ONE.  Karlstrom, who appreciated
its shades of meaning, had continued the tradition.

'Did Kelso use a code-name?"

'Yes, Rat-Catcher..."

Steve absorbed Jodi's revelations calmly.  There was little to be
gained by being angry.  'Why'd'you wait till now to tell me about
this?"

Jodi hesitated then said: 'It seemed like the right time.

Let's face it, we've had more important things to think about over the
last few days.  Cadillac was always around and, well, I was..."

'Confused .  . ..9' 'Yeah.  Truth is, I didn't know what to think.  I
was surprised, naturally.  I'd spent nearly a year on the run with
Dave.  Okay, at times he could be a pain in the ass but I'd gotten
pretty close to him.  I thought he was genuine.

But then... I thought you were too.  A little mixed-up, perhaps,
decking yourself out as a Mute.  But when we met up again in Ne-Issan
and you finally came clean and told me you were an undercover Fed, plus
all that other shit - like your thing with the Herald--' She waved it
all away.  'I'm just a simple, straight down the line type person,
Brickman.  With all the deals you had going there were times when I
lost track of who was shafting who.  My first reaction - after I'd
recovered from the surprise - was to think that maybe you and Dave were
in cahoots, but working both sides of the track."

Steve nodded.  'Yes, I can see how you might think that..."

'Then we ran out of fuel and the way Dave acted made me think that
maybe you didn't know what he was up to.

By which time he'd picked a tree to run into and broken half the bones
in his body."

'So you started feeling sorry for him..."

'What was the point of telling you?  You might have tried to shoot him
there and then!"

Steve's anger rose.  'What makes you think I won't do it now?!"

Jodi grabbed hold of him.  'Because you don't have to, and I won't let
you!  What harm can he do now?  The poor bastard can barely move!"

'So what do you care?  I just don't get it, Jodi.  He helped get us
into this mess.  Why are you trying to protect him?"

'For the same reason when you were tied to a post face to face with a
corpse, I persuaded Malone to let me come back and cut you loose!

Because I cared!  And Dave cared enough to come with me!  The same way
you cared enough to get me out of Ne-Issan - or Was that because Dave
and I were needed to make up the numbers?"

'No!  I meant it!  I promised to get you out and I did.

We're all from Big Blue, right?"

'Exactly.  We're the best.  That's why I want to do what's right for
both of you."

'Go ahead.  I'm listening..."

'If those planes come over again I'm gonna let 'em know that Dave and I
are down here.  And if they ask where you are, I'm gonna say that you,
Cadillac and Clearwater never came back from a hunting trip.  That you
were probably captured by a bunch of Mutes and the only reason I
escaped was because I stayed behind to look after Dave."  Jodi
paused.

'How does it sound so far?"

'Keep talking..."

'I'll probably have to tell them you'd talked about trying to get to
Wyoming - but that everyone could forget about that now because if you
weren't already dead, you probably soon would be."  She shrugged.

'Mutes kill anyone who invades their turf, right?"

'Right..."

'Of course, I won't say anything about all that stuff Clearwater did at
the Heron Pool.  They probably wouldn't believe it anyway.  And
besides, talking about Mute magic's a Code One offence."

Steve waited a while.  'Is that it...?"

'Yeah."

'Aren't you forgetting one thing?  Kelso might be an undercover Fed but
you ran with a bunch of breakers for over a year.  What do you think
they're gonna do, Jodi pin a lifesaving medal on your chest?  You've
seen too much and you know too much.  If they take you back to Fort
Worth you'll probably end up against the wall."

'I know.  But that's the only way I can save both your asses.  Two
lives for one."  She grimaced ruefully.  'That's not such a bad
percentage."

'This is crazy.  There must be some other way to get Kelso on board and
keep you off the--' 'No!"  Jodi grasped Steve's wrist firmly.  'I want
to go in."

She searched his eyes for some sign of encouragement and drew a
blank.

'I know it looks as if I'm running out on you but .... ' she paused
awkwardly, ' .  . . this is the best chance I'm ever going to get to
straighten things out."

'Then take it.  With the top deck of The Lady on your case you should
come out cleaner than the PG's underwear."

'It'd be nice to think so but if I draw a ticket to the wall I'll go
quietly and say my piece.  I've had enough, Brickman."  Her mouth
twisted into a tired smile.  'Once upon a time I believed in the
Federation - that the First Family could do no wrong.  Then Dave and
Malone and Medicine Hat showed me another whole new way of living,
feeling and thinking and I believed that too.

'I realized we'd been fed a whole pack of lies only to discover that
Dave - one of the guys who saved my life -wasn't for real either.  I
don't hate him for it.  But it made me realize there ain't no truth to
be found anywhere, Brickman.  So you might as well pick the most
comfortable lie and live with it."

'I think you're wrong but I know what you mean."

Steve sighed with genuine regret.  'It's your decision, Jodi.  So where
do we go from here?"

'Well... before I do anything rash, maybe I should talk things over
with Dave."

'Leave that to me,' said Steve.  He saw the flicker of alarm in her
eyes.  'Don't worry, I'm not going to give him a hard time.  I'm pretty
sure he went along with you because he wanted to see which way I'd
jump.  He probably had orders not to make contact.  The high wires who
run this scummy business back in Grand Central have some strange
ideas.

They don't like us guys at the sharp end getting too friendly with one
another."

Jodi nodded.  'Tell me something..."

'What's that?"

'When we were crossing Lake Erie.  If Dave and I hadn't told you we
didn't want to go back in, what were you planning to do?"

'I'd have taken you out with the gas just like the others,' said
Steve.

Jodi checked the sky for herself then stood up and moved out into the
open.  She looked back at Steve.

'When the new intake came aboard The Lady in '89, Big D told me you
were the one to watch.  I'm not surprised they made you an undercover
Fed."

Steve shrugged modestly.  There hadn't been a plan.

From the moment they'd boarded the wheelboat for Bu-faro he'd been
playing it by ear.  Plagued by divided loyalties, his mental confusion
had steadily increased until Roz had come through on their own private
line with the reassurance he needed.  But given their present perilous
situation this was not the moment to reveal any hint of weakness or
indecision..  If Jodi was convinced he was ten moves ahead of everyone
else in the game, why spoil the illusion?

CHAPTER FIVE

For the wingmen aboard The Lady from Louisiana, the second day produced
more encouraging results.  The primary search area had been assailed by
new snow flurries overnight but the accompanying wind, which sculpted
the landscape into a new pattern of knife-edged dunes and hollows, blew
most of the accumulated snow from the abandoned Skyriders.

They were spotted by the afternoon patrol led by Nate Stinson.  He had
been Deputy Section-Leader aboard Sands of Iwojima before being
transferred and moving up a notch into the post that Jodi had held
aboard The Lady.  Stinson radioed news of the find to Hartmann then,
after all four pilots had made a low-level check on the area, he
detailed Vickers to land and examine the crash site.

The wingman, one of two on the present patrol whose aircraft had been
fitted with ski attachments wasn't too thrilled at having drawn the
short straw but there was nothing he could do except say 'Roger,
Wilco'.  He put down alongside the remains of the highway and taxied
back to where one of the Skyriders still stood more or less uptight
with its wheels buffed in the snow.

Leaving his motor running, in case he needed to make a quick getaway,
Vickers made his way towards it.  The wind had cleared patches of the
crumbling highway but the vegetation on the overgrown slopes had
trapped the snow beneath an icy crust.

This was Vickers' second operational tour but, up to this moment, he
had only ever set down on the flight-deck of the wagon-train.  Well,
that was not quite true.  He had made four touch and go landings to try
out the skis but this was the first time he had actually walked more
than ten yards on Plainfolk territory and prior to crossing the
Missouri he had never, in his whole life, seen so much snow before.

Pressing ahead on the blithe assumption it was all ankle deep he
crashed through the brittle surface and sank in over his knees.

Recovering from his initial surprise, he attempted to resume the
purposeful stride with which he'd left the Skyhawk but was quickly
reduced to an ungainly waddle by the buried tangle of roots and stalks
that kept trapping his feet.

Goddamn fuggin' overground.  . . First Family wanted their brains
examining ... who'd wanna live in an asshole place like this?

It was not all that far to the highway, but by the time he reached it,
Vickers had run out of obscene swear words to heap upon the heads of
the shit-brained high-wires who had dreamt up this operation.

From the air, the plane had appeared to be undamaged, but as he drew
closer, Vickers saw that the Skyrider had been reduced to a mere
shell.

A horde of scavenging Mutes, working with the same expertise that
desert vultures bring to the job of removing the edible parts of a dead
camel, had picked the metal carcass clean: seats, cables, control rods
and wires, instruments, hatches, parts of the canopy, every square inch
of fabric and anything that could be unscrewed, unpicked or torn loose
had vanished.

An examination of the snow-covered debris wrapped around the nose-wheel
revealed that this Skyrider had ploughed into the severed tail section
of its companion during its landing run.  Vickers used his
walkie-talkie to report his findings to his airborne companions then
climbed back into his 'hawk and taxied eastwards till he came opposite
the last of the trees where the forward half of the other aircraft had
come to rest.

This too had been stripped but a close inspection provided some useful
clues.  Smears of dried blood on the jagged ends of metal stringers and
formers in the crumpled cockpit section testified to the force of the
impact and the likelihood that one of the five people they were looking
for had been either killed or seriously injured on landing.

Beneath the broken starboard wing, Vickers found like Izo before him
the remains of a fire.  The pine branches that Steve's party had woven
together to form the walls of the shelter had been thrown aside and
scattered but several remained intertwined giving a clue to their
use.

The fire-cans and food tins - which might have told him a great deal
more than they told Izo - had been carried away as trophies but the
scattered circle of ashes and a solitary ring pull-tab from a
standard-issue ration can suggested that the surviving crewmen had
spent some time under shelter before vanishing into the snow-covered
wastes.

Whether they had vanished of their own accord or had been overwhelmed
by the same force of Mutes who had descended on the two aircraft in
search of booty could not be established.  Backing clear of the tree
under which the wreckage lay, Vickers gave his section-leader a status
report and his views on what had happened.

'Roger, Blue Two.  Well done.  Put some sky under your wheels."

They were the words Vickers had been waiting for.  He hurried back
across the highway and waded up the other side to where he'd parked his
Skyhawk facing into wind.

He didn't waste time brushing off the snow or strapping himself in.  He
just rammed the throttle wide open and held his breath until he had
regained the comparative safety of the air.  The audible sigh of relief
came as the altimeter showed the Skyhawk at five hundred feet and
climbing.

Made it... YeeeeHAAAHH!

Fresh snowfalls and cloudy skies limited the air search during The
Lady's third day on station.  The flight-section were stood down but
the rest of the crew plus the Pueblo contingent found themselves with
plenty to do.

Following the discovery of the two Skyriders, Hartmann had decided to
press forward to Davenport.  The move, when completed, would extend the
Skyhawks' range by another one hundred and forty miles, allowing them
more time in the air east of the Mississippi.

Several squads of heavily armed line-men, dressed in the white
coveralls that had been airlifted to the Kansas City rendezvous with
the tanker-train, were sent out to reconnoitre a twenty-mile stretch of
the Cedar River.

When a suitable crossing point had been found, The Lady moved forward
and unloaded the two bulldozers she carried.  Under the direction of
Buck McDonnell, they began the task of cutting an access ramp down to
the water.  It.  Commander Moore, the senior Field Officer had already
put two combat squads onto the east bank to form a bridgehead and the
usual perimeter defence that was always deployed when the crew were
'shifting dirt' was set up around the wagon-train.

The river at this point was only six to eight feet deep over a finn
gravel bed which meant The Lady could roll across without even getting
her belly wet.  The crossing was delayed when the engineers decided
they would have to use explosives to blast loose the rocks buried in
the escarpment on the far side but just after dawn on the fourth day,
the 'dozers had cut the required exit ramp and The Lady was on her way
to Davenport.

The increasing numbers of arrowheads criss-crossing the sky did not go
unnoticed by Cadillac's hosts.  The settlement had not come under
attack, but having watched several blue and white Skyhawks pass almost
directly overhead, Carnegie-Hall, the Kojak wordsmith, became
sufficiently concerned to ask his honoured guests if the appearance of
the cloud-warriors and the attendant iron snake was linked to their own
descent from the skies.

Cadillac who, from the outset, had been anxious to leave Carnegie and
the Kojak elders in no doubt that he and Clearwater were the stars of
the select group the clan had been eagerly expecting, ignored her
warning glance and answered in the affirmative.

Having already held the clan spellbound with his faultless command of
the Iron Masters' language and his graphic descriptions of life at all
levels in Ne-Issan, he now revealed that Clearwater was a summoner who
held the key to several Rings of Power.

Hey-yahhh .  . .

Like all wordsmiths, Cadillac could not resist the lure of a receptive
audience - especially when the story he was telling enhanced his own
importance.  Let the elders of the Clan Kojak mark this!  He, Cadillac,
son of Sky-Walker out of Black-Wing and she, daughter of Thunder-Bird
out of Sun-Dance, had been born in the shadow of The Thrice-Gifted
One.

And Mr Snow - who was known and respected by his peers through the
annual gatherings at the trading post - had declared them to be the
Sword and Shield of Talisman!

And had not the M'Calls, the paramount clan of the She-Kargo, caused
nine cloud-warriors to fall from the sky before forcing the first iron
snake to venture into Plainfolk territory to turn tail and flee?

Cadillac described the parts he and Clearwater had played in that great
victory, allying their powers to those possessed by Mr Snow - The
Storm-Bringer.

Carnegie-Hall and the elders roared their approval.  In truth these
were mighty deeds!

But there was more, declared Cadillac.  And with his audience hanging
on every word he went on to describe how, before leaving the eastern
lands, they and their three companions had dealt the Iron Masters a
mortal blow, killing mighty warlords and decimating their armies with
sky-fire and earth thunder.

Hey-yahhh .  . .

This, concluded Cadillac, was why they and their companions were feared
and pursued by the sand	118

burrowers just as, in time, the dead-faces would seek to avenge their
wounded pride.

This last remark of Cadillac's was totally off-the-cuff; mere verbal
embroidery.  Had he been drawing images of the future from a
seeing-stone with their meaning spelled out in letters of fire, he
could not have made a more accurate prediction.  But he was not
destined to discover the chilling truth that lay behind his boastful
words until the danger burst upon him like a sudden rockslide sweeping
down upon travellers in a narrow mountain pass.

Carnegie-Hall, a dark, sinister-looking lump-head with a bushy black
beard - who Cadillac judged to be half the age of Mr Snow - was quick
to pick up on the unexpected news that Clearwater was a summoner.  If
she had aided Mr Snow to defeat the attack on the M'Calls could she not
- as a simple gesture of thanks for the protection and hospitality
which the Clan Kojak was honoured to offer them - drive these
cloud-warriors from the skies and force the unseen iron snake to return
to its burrow?

The question left Cadillac open-mouthed but he had gone so far over the
top there was only one thing he could say: 'If it is the will of
Talisman, this thing shall be done."  Then, feeling that his reply
needed more of a flourish, he added: 'And in its doing the Plainfolk
shall witness the power of The Chosen, and the Clan Kojak shall be
justly rewarded for being the first to receive them."

How true, my young friend, thought Carnegie-Hall.

How true.  But the rewards he had in mind were of an entirely different
order.

As soon as they had a moment to themselves, Clearwater treated Cadillac
to a withering look.  'Well done.  This time you've excelled
yourself."

Her eyes blazed as her anger mounted.  'How dare you speak of the
secret gifts that are mine alone to reveal!?"

'I got carried away,' said Cadillac.  He spread his hands
apologetically.

'You idiot?Clearwater vented her fury by drumming her fists on his
chest.  'I sat there wishing your tongue would drop out!  How can we do
what you have promised!  ?"

Cadillac fended her off gently.  'Calm down!  I didn't promise we'd do
anything.  I said it would be done if it was the will of Talisman!"  He
stepped back, drew himself up and said loftily: 'It's time you
understood that I don't just say things.  These words are given to
me.

You or I may not understand their meaning when they spring from my lips
but in time, Talisman's purpose will 'be made plain to us.  Learn to be
patient, for all will be well."

'Bravo,' replied Clearwater.  'I hope you're right."  He was beginning
to sound more and more like the gifted young man she had grown up with
and whose life had been entrusted to her care.  Stubborn, complicated,
tormented, petulant but also brave, loyal, imaginative and likeable.  A
true friend.  The Cadillac to whom she had given her body and soul
until the fateful day that the Sky Voices had spoken of when the
golden-haired cloud-warrior had fallen from the skies.

Changing the course of all their lives...

Cadillac abandoned his contemplation of the cosmic mysteries and patted
her shoulders reassuringly.  'Don't worry.  I've got a good feeling
about this."

As darkness shrouded the snow-covered wastes to the east of navref
Joliet, Illinois, Steve sat with his knees drawn up to his chin,
contemplating the glowing embers of the fire they had lit within the
small circle of trees.  On the other side of the pool of orange light,
Jodi was feeding Kelso some soup she had made from a foil sachet of
soya beef-flavoured concentrate and melted snow.

During the day, Steve had built a waist-high circular wall of snow
around the campsite with four exits that could be blocked by
branches.

A layer of more slender branches covered the floor.  Besides
concealing the brightest part of the fire at night, the wall gave
shelter against the icy wind, and once inside, they were able to keep
themselves reasonably warm and snug.

When Kelso could not be coaxed into eating any more Jodi came over and
offered Steve what was left.

'No thanks, you have it."  Steve watched her gulp it down then scrape
out the can.  'Is he still awake?"

'Mmmmm..."  She sucked the spoon clean then licked her lips.

'Good."  Steve dropped his voice.  'It's time he and I cleared the
air."

'Can I sit in.9' 'No.  The less you know the better."  He saw her
bristle.

'Look.  I know you find it difficult to trust me but try just this
once.  Have you said anything to Kelso about, uhh .  . ..9' She shook
her head.  'There didn't seem to be any point."

'You're right.  Well done.  I'll tell him it was me who caught him in
the act.  That way you're in the clear.

You've got enough problems without getting mixed up in whatever Kelso's
mixed up in."

Jodi shrugged.  'I know about you."

'Yeah.  And even that's too much."

'So what if someone starts asking questions?"

'Just tell 'em what you did, and that you did it because I told you I
was acting on behalf of the Federation and ?.  . you believe I still
am."

'Got it."  Jodi smiled.  'You really know how to put over the old
sincerity routine.  I remember you tryin' to buffalo me when we first
met at Forth Worth.  Your eyes actually glow.  D'you know that?"

'For chrissakes, Jodi!  I'm not trying to put one over on you!  This is
for your own good!"

'Just kidding.  That's the trouble with guys like you."

'What d'you mean - "guys like me"?"

'Over-achievers.  They got no sense of humour.  But seriously - these
people who may question me... do I tell 'em I know about Side-Winder
and the tie-up with the nips?"

'Only if they ask you first.  Stick to the golden rule.

Don't hide anything but don't volunteer any information.

Above all, don't attempt to justify your actions.  Let me take the
heat.

You did what you did because I asked you to.  Okay?"

'Okay... ' Jodi got to her feet.

Steve followed her up.  'Do my eyes really glow?"

Jodi laughed.  'You tryin' to tell me you never practised in front of a
mirror?"  She stepped outside the snow circle and looked up through the
outer branches.

'Christo!  Take a look at this..."

Steve joined her.  A hard white moon rode high in a blue-black satin
sky, edging a majestic procession of dense black clouds with a fleeting
glow of silver.  The light, which was strong enough to cast shadows on
the snow, turned the night frost at their feet into a carpet of
pearls.

The landscape beyond, harsh and blinding in the winter sun, had been
coloured in with mysterious, washed-out shades of blue.  At moments
like this, it was easy to understand why Mutes thought such beauty was
the inspired handiwork of some all-powerful being.  Like Mo-Town, the
Great Sky-Mother...

Jodi surveyed the scene then said: 'This is one of the things I'm gonna
miss."

'Yeah.  Not bad, is it?"  Compared to this, the vistas offered by the
John Wayne Plaza paled into insignificance.

She fisted his shoulder.  'Think I'll stroll around for a bit while you
guys swap secrets.  Have fun..."

Steve laid a few more branches on the fire then settled down beside
Kelso.  'You and I need to talk."

'S'posing I don't feel like it?"

'S'posing it means living instead of dying?"

'You mean I got a choice?"

'Wanna know something?  Adversity really brings out the best side of
your nature."

'Move it along, Brickman.  Otherwise I may fall asleep on you."

Steve outlined Jodi's plan to get them both aboard The Lady, and the
reason why she thought she'd get a friendly reception.

'Because of her connections..."

'Yes.  I think it's a runner, don't you?"

Kelso greeted this with a husky sneer.  You could see by his face it
hurt even to breathe.  'She might get away with it but what about me?

When they feed my serial to that bug-eyed monster back in Houston,
they'll know I've been on the run for over three years.  Those guys on
that wagon-train'll dump me over the side without even bothering to
change the bandages!"

'It's true they rarely take renegades back alive, but in your case I
think they'll make an exception."

'Oh, yeah?  You must know something' I don't."  Kelso tried to keep his
voice and expression neutral but the way his lips froze up around the
words gave him away.

'Wrong.  I heard something I wasn't meant to."  Steve's eyes fastened
on the left side of Kelso's head.  'Hold still.

You got a bug crawling up your neck."  He reached over and flicked away
the imaginary insect then slid his forefinger upwards under Kelso's ear
and located the pea-sized transceiver lying beneath the skin just below
the edge of the skull.

Kelso tried to move his head away but Steve's own transceiver had
already picked up the signal and fed it into his eardrum as a
mosquito-like whine.  Jodi was right.

David Kelso was a mexican - as Steve had once suspected back at the
Heron Pool when he'd encountered the irascible red-headed breaker
humming 'Down Mexico Way'.

'Just testing.  Let me guess your call-sign -RT-CR...?"

With only one free hand and the rest of him tied to the hatch, Kelso
knew he was at Steve's mercy.  'How long have you known?"

'It was just before we took off from Long Point.  I heard this
character called Rat-Catcher asking Sky-Bucket Three to pass 'a message
to Mother."  Steve fed him an edited version of Jodi's story.

'What can I say?"

'Plenty.  That evening back at the Heron Pool - when I met you in the
alleyway and--' 'I was humming our signature tune--' 'Yeah.  When I
responded with my call-sign - why didn't you answer back?"

Kelso shrugged his good shoulder.  'I was checking you out.  Jodi'd
told me what you had in mind.  I just wanted to make sure you really
were one of us."

'Are you telling me that, on top of everything else, there are guys who
pretend to be mexicans?"

"There are some strange people out here, Brickman grinding some very
peculiar axes."

'And you thought I might be one of them..."

'The question did crop up.  Jodi wasn't one hundred per cent sure of
you either.  You're a hard man to pin down."

'Look who's talking.  What about your change of heart on the way to
Long Point?"

'Simple.  It was Jodi who suddenly got cold feet.  I pretended to go
along with her to see which way you would jump."  He saw the doubt
creep into Steve's eyes.

'C'mon, Brickman, you know the way Mother likes to run things.  If
we're not sent in as a team, individual agents do not link up without
prior instructions.  It's SOP."

'Except in an emergency."

'Right.  But response to a May-Day is not mandatory if it risks
jeopardizing your own operation.  The same applies to the situation
where you came on to me.  If it's not in the script, then it's up to
each individual agent to react as he thinks fit.  Depends on the
circumstances.  He may not want to blow a deep cover that's taken years
to acquire.  Okay, that may mean there are times when the right hand
may not know what the left hand is doin', but it's the only way AMEXICO
and its operations can remain watertight."

'Yeah, I suppose so..."  A sudden thought struck Steve.  'Did we run
into each other by accident in Nebraska, or did--' 'By accident, of
course!  Jeer!  What a question!  If I'd known I was gonna get captured
by those fuggin lump-heads you wouldn't have seen me for dust!"  Kelso
was lying, but now that Brickman thought he knew all the answers, it
was easier to slip one past him.

Besides, it was half-true.  They had been alerted to Brickman's
arrival.  As a brand new member of AMEXICO, he had been 'posted' to
test the limits of his physical and mental endurance - and had passed
with flying colours.  Kelso and Medicine-Hat had been detailed to go
back to cut him loose before he suffered serious injury and, by a happy
coincidence, Jodi's genuine concern had provided a convenient cover.

The bit which hadn't been planned was their unexpected encounter with
the clan m'call.

'So what were you doing out there?"  Steve knew it was a waste of time
asking but his curiosity got the better of him.

Kelso replied with a croaking laugh.  'You never cease to amaze me,
Brickman."

'How about Malone?  He seemed to know a great deal about under-cover
Feds."

'That's a question you'll have to ask him."  Kelso yawned.  'Is there
much more of this?  I'm findin' it hard to keep my eyes open."

'I want you to give a message to Mother."

Kelso yawned again.  'Hope it's not a long one..."

'No.  But listen carefully.  I was sent out to capture three smart
Mutes.  Cadillac, Clearwater and their teacher - an old guy called Mr
Snow."

'Well, two out of three ain't bad.  Especially on your first
assignment."

'Will you listen to me?"  demanded Steve angrily.  'This is
important!

Those tWO are piddle-shit compared with Mr Snow.  You saw what
Clearwater did at the Heron Pool?  Yeah?  Well, Mr Snow can unleash ten
times more power than that!'

'So just how d'you propose to bring him in?"

'The only way I can get to him is through his pupils.

They have been raised to take his place when he dies and they're his
only weak spot."

'Go on .  . ."

'Knocking out Side-Winder and the two MX pilots was necessary to give
me the deep cover I need.  Cadillac and Clearwater have to believe I'm
totally committed to the Plainfolk.  That's why I promised Mr Snow I'd
do my best to rescue them from Ne-Issan.  If I can get them back safely
to their clan in Wyoming, I'll be the local hero and--'

'That's when we snatch all three."

'Exactly."  Steve grinned.  'Y'see, the thing is, I don't really give a
damn about saving your ugly hide.  I just need someone I can trust to
explain what's happening.  Someone with the right connections.  The
first thing you must do when you get aboard The Lady is contact Mother,
relay what I've just told you, and ask him to arrange for Hartmann to
get his marching orders.  I want that wagon-train out of here ASAP and
I don't want to see another one north of the Kansas state line until I
send word."

'Some chance.  They may pull out The Lady but I can't see 'em holding
up the whole fuggin' war while you get your act together."

'Just pass on the message, okay?"

'Okay.  But I think I ought to warn you.  If someone offers me a quick
rebuild under a general anaesthetic, your message may have to wait
until I come round."

'Bad, huh?"

'I've known better days."  Kelso fought down a wave of pain and
clutched at Steve's arm.  'Listen.  I appreciate you sticking by me.

Thanks for fixing me up with a ride home."

'You're not there yet, amigo."

'All bar the shouting.  I owe you one - okay?"

'If you get that message through, we're even.  But if you feel like
doing me a favour, just make sure Jodi comes out of this in one
piece.

She's putting her neck on the line to save yours.  Remember that."

'I will..."

'Good.  Here's the bottom line.  Apart from Mother, if anyone wants to
know, you two are the only survivors.

You didn't see anything.  It's Jodi who's got the full story.  Got
that?"

'Yeah..."

Jodi came over to give Kelso his nightly jab of pain-killer then
stroked his forehead.  'Okay, get some sleep, champ.  We want you in
good shape for the big event."

'When's, uhh ... tomorrow...?"  Kelso's eyes started to close.

'Soon,' said Steve.  It would have to be.  There were only two more
shots of morphine left in the locker.

For the return journey to the campsite, the Kojak elders provided
Cadillac and Clearwater with an escort of two hands instead of the
original five.  Although this appeared to devalue their worth it was,
in fact, intended as a compliment.  Having listened to Cadillac's
extravagant claims, the elders had come to the conclusion that even if
only half of it were true the 'Chosen Ones' would be more than capable
of protecting themselves and their escort.

The decision was not unanimous, but taking their lead from
Carnegie-Hall, the dissenters did not declare themselves.  Having
netted this prize catch, the wordsmith was reluctant to jeopardize
their safety but questions of etiquette were involved.  To have
provided their honoured guests with the same, or an even larger escort
would have implied that Cadillac's testimony regarding their status and
Clearwater's powers had not been taken seriously.

Time-honoured tradition required wordsmiths to speak openly to one
another.  They might not declare all they knew but everything they
declared had to be true.

For one member of this select band to imply by word or deed that a
brother-in-spirit had used his gifts to weave a tissue of lies would
have been a serious affront with unpredictable consequences.

The elders had another more practical reason for reducing the size of
the escort; the warriors were needed elsewhere.  The appearance of the
iron snake had disturbed the winter slumbers of the Mute clans whose
turf lay close to the Mississippi.  Had they been capable of submerging
their individual interests they might have put up a concerted and
vigorous defence but the day when the Plainfolk clans exchanged their
implacable hostility towards one another for a sense of nationhood was
still a long way off.

Instead of standing their ground, they had begun to withdraw in a
northeasterly direction.  That very morning, a posse of Kojak braves
had encountered an advance party of C'Natti Mutes from an unidentified
clan who were in the process of planting marker poles on land already
claimed by the M'Waukee.

The C'Natti - the fawning jackals to the wolf-packs of the D'Troit had
been driven off without a fight but they threatened to return in
greater numbers and this had given the Kojak elders cause for
concern.

With some nine hundred braves of both sexes, the Kojak did not fear an
attack by a rival clan but they could not withstand simultaneous
invasions of their turf by several adversaries - as was bound to happen
if the iron snake continued its advance.

A damaging conflict could only be avoided if the threat from this
fearsome beast was eliminated.  Since Cadillac M'Call had claimed its
arrival on the scene was directly linked to the appearance of the
Chosen Ones, it was only reasonable to expect these gifted individuals
to use their combined powers to remove it.  Carnegie was given the task
of explaining to Cadillac before he left that defeat of the iron-snake
was no longer regarded as an optional, goodwill gesture: it was now
essential to prevent the clan being overwhelmed by the pressure from
its displaced neighbours.

Clearwater's heart sank as she listened but Cadillac

accepted the assignment with the confident air of a man for whom
nothing is impossible.  He chose to ignore her reproachful glances as
they ran southwards but behind his purposeful 'can-do' demeanour he was
silently castigating himself for his uncontrolled eloquence.  And the
phantom personality that dwelt within his brain was running around in
mounting panic repeatedly asking the same unanswerable question: 'What
am I gonna DOLt?"

Steve intercepted the column a mile north of the campsite and took
Cadillac and Clearwater aside.  'You had me worried.  We were expecting
you the day before yesterday."

'The journey took longer than we thought,' said Cadillac.

Steve's eyes met Clearwater's.  Her face looked drawn.

'You okay?"

Cadillac cut in ahead of her.  'She's fine.  What have you done about
Kelso?"

'He's still with us but hold onto your hat.  Jodi has come up with an
interesting solution and I think it's something you and I should talk
over."  He searched the sky.  'Let's get under cover..."

Cadillac told their escort what was happening.  The fur-clad braves
followed them into the nearby stand of pines and settled down out of
earshot.

Steve cast his eyes over the Kojak Mutes then asked: 'How d'you make
out with their wordsmith?"

Cadillac responded with a self-satisfied smile.  'We're here, aren't
we?  I did a real number on him."

Clearwater's expression didn't change but her eyes conveyed a different
story.

'I bet .  . . But something struck me while you were gone.  How come
you and Mr Snow didn't know of this prophecy about the Chosen Ones?  I
thought you wordsmiths passed this kind of stuff around during your
annual get-together at the trading post."

Cadillac did not attempt to hide his exasperation at what he perceived
to be an attempt to undermine his new-found authority.  'Brickman!

Just leave the business of prophecy to those whose minds are trained to
dwell on such things!"  Clearwater, in an effort to keep the peace,
said: 'The Old One may have kept it secret to protect us.  Ignorance of
the terror and humiliation we were fated to endure in the Eastern Lands
gave us the blind courage we needed.

Foreknowledge of these things might have weakened our resolve.  ' 'Nice
try,' said Steve, with an admiring nod.  'But it doesn't answer the
question."  He inclined his head in the direction of their seated
escort.  'If those guys were expecting us to drop in - as their
wordsmith said we would - it means you were destined to survive the
trip to Ne-Issan.  So it doesn't make any difference whether you knew
what you were letting yourself in for or not."

'Can we get back to the real purpose of this conversation?"  snapped
Cadillac.  'We are not here to justify our actions but to hear his
excuse for failing to deal with the problem of Kelso!"  'I was coming
to that.  Those guys over there.  are they in charge, or are you?"

Cadillac glanced at the twelve Mutes then frowned.

'How do you mean....?"

'Jack me!  It's a simple enough question!  Will they do what you tell
'em!"  Cadillac looked at the Mutes again then studied Steve warily.

'Just tell me what the plan is, Brickman.  I can see you can't wait to
tell me."

'It's brilliant.  Those Skyhawks that have been flying overhead are--'
'--from The Lady.  I know.  They have white wing tips.

Only these are Mark Two's - as opposed to the delta-winged models you
and Jodi were flying last year in Wyoming.  Before the M'Calls cut
short your promising career."

'Correct... ' Steve didn't let the interruption needle

him.  Cadillac was just trying to level the score.  Some chance.  But
he would have to be watched.  If he wasn't slapped down soon he'd start
believing he was running things.  Meanwhile it was time for some soft
soap.  An easy smile.  'When you break into a guy's brain, you really
clear out the shelves..."

'Just thought I'd remind you - in case you were trying to put one over
on me."

'On the contrary.  This is a chance for you to look good in front of
your new friends."

'Don't tell me.  Let me guess.  Jodi wants to try to get back on board
The Lady - and she's going to take Kelso with her."

'Very good.  Flushing that sake out of your system has really sharpened
you up."

'Okay.  That gets rid of Kelso but how does it benefit us?"

'Jodi is going to swear, hand on heart, that she saw the three of us
caught by a big posse of Mutes while we were on our way back from a
hunting trip.  She wasn't spotted because she'd stayed under cover with
Kelso but she had the 'scope on us.  We were cut down and stabbed
repeatedly then our naked bodies were carried away slung on poles."

Cadillac and Clearwater exchanged loaded glances.

Sensing there was something going on that he wasn't part of, Steve
tried to feel them out.  'You're probably wondering if Kelso can be
relied upon to corroborate her story.  It's not a problem.  Since you
left we've been keeping him heavily sedated.  He doesn't know what day
it is."  He studied their faces but neither was giving anything away.

'So it's down to her.  And since she was a trusted member of the crew
for five years..."

'They'll believe her..."

'Sure,' continued Steve.  'When the news gets back to Grand Central,
they'll tell Hartmann to pull out.  You can take the credit and
everyone'll be able to go back to sleep again."

Cadillac mulled it over.  Brickman had handed him the opportunity he'd
been looking for.  The plan began to crystallize in his mind.

'Neat...

I like it."

'Good.  'Cos you're going to have to sell it to those twelve guys over
there.  We don't want 'em going apeshit when those planes come in for
the pickup."

'I'm not a total idiot, Brickman."

Steve rolled his tongue around a tart reply then decided to swallow
it.

There would be time enough to nail this grass-monkey to the wall.

When Hartmann came on screen to announce that an eight-figure serial
number had been sighted stamped in the snow one hundred and forty miles
east of their present position, the news was greeted with a spontaneous
cheer.  Since the crew had been told they were searching for five
Trackers, everyone was genuinely pleased they'd been found but the real
excitement was generated by the prospect that their successful recovery
would mean an early return home.

Summoned to the saddle, Trail-Boss McDonnell recognized the serial
tapped onto the screen by the RadCommTech who had received the
message.

Hart-mann, who knew there were more to serials than met the eye, had it
run through the computer.

Sure enough, up it came: 2096-5341 KAZAN, JODI, R. MUSTERED ABOARD THE
LADY FROM LOUISIANA, 5 APRIL 2984.  PROMOTED FLT.

SEC/LDR 1 MAY 2986.  MIA/BELIEVED KILLED WHILE ATTEMPTING TO LAND ON
DURING STORM NEAR NAVREF CASPAR, WYOMING, 12

JUNE 2989.  FILEXTRANS ENDS Nobody who was on board at the time was
likely to' forget the 12th of June.

Hartmann had known Jodi was out there since being ordered to change
course at Trinidad but he was genuinely surprised to have been handed a
positive ID and a precise location on a plate just when the search,
after a promising start, had entered a needle-inthe-haystack [hase.

He turned to McDonnell.  'That's incredible..."

'Doesn't surprise me at all, sir.  That is one tough hombre."  Coming
from the lips of Big D, the term applied regardless of the recipient's
gender - was the ultimate accolade.  And one that was rarely
bestowed.

Hartmann turned to the execs and technicians on duty in the saddle.

'Well, there it is, gentleman.  Our first contact - and she belongs to
The Lady."

Everybody within earshot gave an exultant yell and punched air.

'YO!"

Hartmann gave his Flight Exec the nod.  'Initiate recovery procedures,
Mr Baxter.  I want Kazan back on board as soon as possible.  And that
includes anyone who's with her.  Keep me posted throughout.  I want the
full story as it develops."

'Yessir!"  Baxter saluted happily and went to work.

Hartmann took McDonnell aside.  'I don't want to be a killjoy, Buck,
but as and when she's brought in I'm relying on you to keep the
reception strictly low key."  He watched the broad grin fade from
McDonnell's face.  'A lot can happen in seventeen months."

The Trail-Boss got the message.  'I just can't figure her as a cee-bee,
sir.  Kazan was a straight arrow.  It's partly my fault she went
missing.  As soon as the flood waters went down, one of her section - a
guy called Brickman came onto me.  He wanted to take a search party
down river.  I turned him down flat.  Told him we didn't waste wingmen
on bag-jobs!"  He grimaced ruefully.  'I know that a short while later
we were hit by a screaming mass of lumpshit but I felt bad about it
then - and I feel even worse now."

'You did what was right, Buck.  Regret is a wasted emotion - especially
now she's been found and is apparently well enough to trample her
serial number in the snow.  I share your high regard for her but - much
as I'd like to - we're not going to be able to keep her to ourselves.

In fact, it's likely to be some considerable time before she's
re-instated.  If at all.  When those Assessors get to work..."

'She'll come through, sir.  I'll bet my badge on it.  The crew-chief
told me how she went over the side.  If you ask me, she'd need more
than just luck to get out of a jam like that.  Wyoming to Illinois is a
long way to travel without a wagon-train wrapped around you.  Yessir.

I can't wait to hear what she's been up to."  He threw Hartmann a
knowing look.  'Would I be right in thinking she's linked with those
two Skyriders we've been lookin' for."?"

'I'm afraid we won't know that until she comes aboard,' said
Hartmann.

Apart from his deputy, It.  Commander Cooper and Ryder, the Nav-Exec,
no one else on board knew Kazan and Brickman were two of the five
people The Lady had been sent out to recover.  Kazan's name was now out
of the bag but Hartmann judged it prudent to avoid linking her with the
downed aircraft for as long as possible.

"Cos there are people who say those Skyriders are often used by
Feds."

Hartmann stiffened.  Since his instructive shower with Colonel Marie
Anderssen, he'd become convinced The Lady had been sent out to pick up
the pieces of a covert operation that had gone wrong.  But he wasn't
prepared to share his thoughts with anyone else.  'No comment, Mr
McDonnell.  And a word of advice.  I would suggest you avoid further
speculation on that particular subject in public and in private."

McDonnell leapt to attention and gave Hartmann an impeccable salute.

'YesssSURR!"

Moore, the senior Field Commander approached with his deputy, Captain
Virgil Clay as the Trail-Boss left the saddle.

'What is it, Bob?"

'Virgil has an idea he wants to run by you."

Clay explained.  'I've got this gung-ho lieutenant from the Pueblo
way-station who's offered to take a detachment across the Mississippi
so we've got backup out there on the ground."

'Harmer...?  Is he the guy with the broken nose and no...?"

'That's him.  He claims to have nineteen men prepared to go with him.

They've all had winter combat experience."

'Does he know how far he's got to travel?  Kazan is a hundred and forty
miles due east of here."

'He's already solved that.  We've got four Skyhawks fitted with skis.

His plan is to fit two buddy frames - one each side of the fuselage."

Hartmann turned to It.  Commander Moore.  'Can they lift two passengers
in full combat gear?"

'They can if they strip out the multi-gun."

'Harmer's checked all this with Baxter.  If all four aircraft fly three
sorties we can have twenty men on the ground in seven and a half
hours.

The round trip will take approximately three hours."

'That also means the first eight men will be on their own for three
hours."

'He's thought of that.  The other 'hawks will have to fly top cover
during the build up.  In fact, they'll need air cover during daylight
hours the whole time they're out there."

Hartmann didn't look impressed.  'Which means our entire air component
is going to be tied up while this goon tries to grab himself some glory
and another citation, and it'll take seven and a half hours to fly 'em
all back in."  He shook his head.  'It seems a very extravagant waste
of airpower..."

'On the other hand - ' began Moore.

Hartmann cut in.  'I know exactly what you're going to say, Bob.  I
just think we should wait until we've got Kazan aboard.  Let's see how
she fits into this assignment and just who else is out there."

'Okay.  I can live with that..."

Captain Clay looked disappointed.  He'd been hoping to hitch a ride and
grab a citation of his own.  'So what shall I tell Lieutenant Harmer,
sir?"

'Give him a map to play with and tell him to prepare a list of the
equipment he and his men will need.  Have they got their own
weapons?"

'Only side-arms, sir."

'Arrange for them to be issued with the full ordinance load, Mr Clay.

And tell Harmer he's responsible for inspecting his team's weapons and
making sure everything is in perfect working order.  I want them at
combat-alert status twelve hours from now!"

'Yess-SIRRR!"  Clay's right hand flew up to the long peak of his yellow
baseball cap.  He spun on his heel and left the saddle at the double.

Moore glanced shrewdly at his commander.  'That should keep the
lieutenant busy for a while."

'Yes,' sighed Hartmann.  'Those goddam Pioneers.

Just because they didn't make it onto a wagon-train they can't resist
trying to prove what eager-beavers they are."

He dragged his fingers over the ends of his bushy white mustache - a
sign he was mulling something over.  'Do you think he could be a
plant?"

'Hard to tell,' said Moore.  'Why don't you ask MaryAnn?"

'I might just do that.  Meanwhile, keep the pressure on him, Bob.  With
a bit of luck, he might get overexcited and shoot himself in the
foot."

Moore smiled.  'I'd say that was unlikely.  But it can always be
arranged."

Hartmann's question about the gung-ho lieutenant from Pueblo referred
to the covert deployment of military personnel attached to the
Department of Assessors.  They performed the same duties as regular
soldiers of varying rank and grade but their real task was to monitor
the operational 'zeal' and competence of wagon-train commanders and
their crews.

Their presence aboard a wagon-train, or inside a way-station, usually
only came to light when they appeared as witnesses for the prosecution
at disciplinary tribunals.  No one knew how widespread this unpleasant
practice was but the knowledge that the testimony of these scum-bags
had sent good men to the wall helped keep everybody on their toes.

In certain aspects of their work, notably their assessment of a
crew's'attitude' to the leadership and directives of the First Family,
the active service evaluators - for that was their official title
resembled the political commissars attached to units of the Soviet Army
- notably during the pre-Holocaust conflict known as World War Two.

The commissars, however, were highly visible and could take issue with
military commanders over the 'correctness' of tactical decisions.  An
ASE had the same power to wreck a man's career; the trouble was, you
couldn't even see the tip of the iceberg.  By the time you discovered
it was there, you were usually already badly holed and sinking because,
for serious code violations, no pleas of mitigation were allowed.

To the Department, an evaluator serving with an operational unit was
referred to as 'an ace in the hole'.

The time they stayed with a particular outfit could be a month or a
year.  An ASE could be a senior or junior officer, a technician, or a
lowly dog-soldier manning a weapons barbette - or there might not be
anyone from the Department on board at all.  That was the strength and
the beauty of the system; there was no need for a vast army of
snoopers.  Like so many of the controls exercised by the First Family,
it operated on the classic principle known as 'FUD' - Fear, Uncertainty
and Doubt.

Lieutenant Harmer might have proved to be a pain in the butt but one of
his fellow-travellers from Pueblo, Deke Haywood turned out to be a real
find.  The VidCommTech-4 had an unsettling enthusiasm for cloud-filled
skies, but as far as anyone knew it was not an arrestable offence
although it might be a certifiable disorder.  Whatever the official
verdict, the crew of The Lady regarded Deke's addiction as a minor and
forgivable abberration when set alongside the fact that the guy was an
electronic genius.  Since coming aboard he had already debugged several
systems and was now working his way through a list of equipment whose
intermittent malfunctions had resisted the diagnostic skills of The
Lady's own repairmen.

In anticipation of this first air-to-ground contact, Deke had also
assembled two identical black boxes - one for each of the alternating
four-plane patrols.  When fitted to a Skyhawk it would enable someone
on the ground below to be patched through to The Lady.  All the wingmen
had to do was drop a suitably-packed walkie-talkie and Hartmann would
be able to talk directly to whoever was out there.

As it happened, Steve's party had two radios - one from each of the
emergency survival packs fitted to the Skyhawks.  As a result of which,
Jodi came on the air and was put through to the man himself while some
guys in the flight car were busily fitting a drag chute to the canister
containing the walkie-talkie that Gus White was waiting impatiently to
deliver.

Gus, who had pictured himself coming over the rise like the legendary
5th Cavalry, was not well pleased.

'Never mind,' said Baxter.  'You can go out and pick her up."

It was the patrol led by Stinson who had spotted her serial number and
reported it to The Lady.  Vickers, having made a landing, had swapped
planes with a guy called Owens and it was he and the No.4 - Marklin who
were now flying what had quickly been dubbed the 'Ski-hawks'.  Both men
offered to go down and investigate but Stinson decided against it.

Up to the moment of sighting the serial number, the aim had been to
maximize the time spent in the air.  Since the ski attachments produced
a significant amount of drag, the two planes had not yet been saddled
with the additional burden of the 'buddy' frames - which meant they
were unable to pick anybody up.

Stinson radioed for instructions.  Baxter, the Flight Exec told him
that the second pair of Ski-hawks aboard The Lady were now being fitted
with the emergency stretcher-type attachments.  Owens and Marklin were
to bring their planes in for the same treatment; he and Vickers were
to circle the recovery point until relieved.

Hidden at a safe distance beneath a dense cluster of pines to the north
of the campsite, Steve, Cadillac and Clearwater took turns to watch
events unfold with the aid of the 'scope that had come from the same
survival pack as the handset that lay beside them.  The set was turned
to the standard frequency used by the Skyhawks for air-to-air and
air-to-ground transmissions.

Holding the 'scope steady on the clump of trees under which Kelso lay,
Steve saw Jodi emerge holding the second handset in her left hand and a
flare pistol in her right.  She looked up at the Skyhawks circling high
overhead then fired a green flare almost parallel with the ground.  The
dazzling ball of light landed near the middle of the huge block of
numbers Steve and Cadillac had helped her trample in the snow during
the night.

Steve watched the smoke drift from the burning magnesium and mentally
reviewed their preparations to reassure himself they had covered all
the angles.

To add weight to her claim that she had spent the last several days
alone with the injured Kelso, they carefully concealed their last moves
around the camp by treading the same path through the snow.  And when
they withdrew northwards to their present hiding place, they again
walked in single file.  Jodi followed for part of the way then doubled
back to create a return track as they entered the trees.

Before leaving the campsite, Clearwater used some of the pink soap
leaves and melted snow to scrub the dye off Kelso's face, neck and
hands then helped Jodi do the same.  The clean-up was designed to
prevent a knee-jerk reaction by her rescuers.  If they suddenly found
themselves confronted by what looked like a Mute they might shoot first
and feel foolish afterwards.  It then occurred to Steve that when her
painted body came to light it would inevitably lead to more awkward
questions.  Jodi agreed and was soon standing naked and shivering by
the small fire.  They all pitched in and with everybody scrubbing away
like crazy, she didn't stay cold for long.

Kelso's injuries meant they couldn't do the same for him but that,
decided Steve, was his problem.  The mexican would be hospitalized as
soon as he got on board and Karlstrom, alerted by the RX code attached
to the mexican's serial number would ensure he was surrounded by a wall
of silence.

While Steve went over the scenario with Jodi to make sure she was word
perfect, Cadillac and Clearwater had given Kelso a last examination,
making sure his splints and bandages were still firmly in place to
avoid further dislocation of his limbs during his aerial journey.  And
when that had been done, Cadillac helped Steve check the campsite to
make sure all evidence pointed to it being occupied by the two people
that would be found there.  Clearwater having persuaded Jodi to kneel
down, proceeded to massage her neck in an effort to soothe the pain
from the whiplash injury she'd suffered in the crash and which had
flared up again during the big scrubdown.

At one point Jodi appeared to fall briefly asleep but when she opened
her eyes she was able to move her head freely without the slightest
twinge of discomfort.

'That is amazing!'

'Not to the Plainfolk,' said Cadillac.

'It's all in the mind,' explained Clearwater.  And she took hold of
Jodi's hands and looked deep into her eyes.

'When the time comes to act, heed the voice within you and you will be
able to summon up the strength required to achieve that which is asked
of you."

At the time, this had struck Steve as a slightly odd thing to say but
they had then gone out to stamp Jodi's number across the landscape and
he had not given it a second thought.

CHAPTER SIX

Now, in the early afternoon of the following day, the plan was coming
to fruition.  Steve, who had been listening with the others to the
chatter of The Lady's wingmen as they spoke to each other, knew the
giant numbers sighted on the ground had been confirmed as being those
issued to Jodi and that a recovery operation was now underway.

He watched Jodi ready the handset as one of the Skyhawks which had been
circling high above her spiralled down and made a low pass over the
dying flare.

Nate Stinson, the pilot, dipped his wings as he sped past Jodi.  She
waved as it banked away in a climbing turn to her right.  Levelling out
at five hundred feet, Stinson kept the starboard wing down and let the
Skyhawk's nose travel along the horizon in a gentle 360-degree turn.

Jodi switched on the handset as the blue and white machine flew over
the snow-covered pines beneath which Steve lay hidden.

'2-0-9-6-5-3-4-1 calling Sky-hawk.

How do you read, over?"

'Blue One to 5-3-4-1.  We have you in the frame and read you five by
five.  Your call-sign is Snow Bird, repeat Snow Bird.  Need your
sit-rep to facilitate recovery.

Stand by while we patch you through to Sun-Ray Lady, over."

'Roger, Blue One.  Snow Bird standing by..."

Switching channels, Stinson called up The Lady and received
confirmation that his black box was relaying Jodi's transmission.  The
exchanges were being taped and a digital voice transducer was
simultaneously translating it into text onto one of the many video
screens.  Sun-Ray Lady was Hartmann's call-sign.

'Blue One to Snow Bird.  Sun-Ray Lady now on line.

Proceed with sit-rep.  Blue One listening out."

Steve, Cadillac and Clearwater listened intently as Jodi gave Hartmann
a succinct run-down on the state of health of her travelling companion
and told him that she and Kelso were all that was now left out of the
original five-strong party.

Hartmann thanked her then asked for Kelso's serial number.

Jodi reeled it off, adding: 'I was told to mention there's an R
X-suffix - whatever that means, over."

'Roger, Snow Bird.  Stand by."  Hartmann turned to Dexter, the Duty
RadComm Tech.  'Is our video-link with Houston up and running?"

'It is now, sir."

'Key that latest name and number through to Central Records Control
with a ten-ten rating.  I want immediate verification and procedural
guidance!"  'Yessir!"  Dexter's fingers moved nimbly over his
keyboard.

RX was shorthand for 'Refer to Executive'.  It meant that no
administrative action could be taken in regard to an individual without
reference to AMEX, the Executive Branch of the Amtrak Federation housed
in what was known as the Black Tower.  Old hands like Hartmann knew
that AMEX was an extension of the First Family.  That meant Mr Kelso
was working for the White House.  Could Jodi Kazan - as Buck McDonnell
had hinted - be working for them too?

Steve, Cadillac and Clearwater caught intermittent glimpses of
Stinson's Skyhawk as it continued to circle over the campsite.  Jodi
had gone back under cover and was now standing beneath the tips of the
outermost branches with the handset close to her ear.  Its twin lay
between Steve and Cadillac, quietly dribbling static.

Hartmann came back on the air.  'Sun-Ray Lady to Snow Bird plus one.

Recovery now underway.  Two, repeat two pick-up vehicles air-borne at
fourteen-fifty hours.  ETA your position sixteen-twenty hours Central
Standard Time.  Do you have time-check, over?"

'Snow Bird to Sun-Ray Lady.  Affirmative.  I make it
fifteen-fifty-five, over."

'You're running an hour fast, Snow Bird.  It is now
fourteen-fifty-five.  We have to withdraw your top cover but don't
worry.  The cavalry is on the way.  Do you have any coloured flares?"

'Affirmative, Sun-Ray.  Three red, two green."

'Okay, Snow Bird.  Put up a green if recovery can proceed.  If there
are hostiles on the ground fire a red in their direction.  Escort will
lay down covering fire on your range and bearing."

Steve and Cadillac exchanged glances.

'So hang in there, Kazan,' continued Hartmann.

Despite the distance you could hear the smile on his face.  'If
everything goes according to plan we should have you back on board in
plenty of time to muster for the red-eye shift."

'Can't wait, sir.  Snow Bird listening out."

It was the turn of Clearwater and Cadillac to look at each other.

Steve, who lay on the far side of Cadillac, was unable to see the glint
of triumph in his eyes.

Jodi, three-quarters of a mile to the south, watched the low-flying
Skyhawk dip its wings as it turned westwards and climbed to catch up
with its high-flying companion.  As the sky emptied she was seized by a
sudden anxiety.  So near and yet so far... Never mind.

She looked at her watch.  Their replacements would arrive soon.  By
eighteen hundred hours, all being well, she'd be back on board and
whooping it up with some of the good ole boys.

She ducked in under the branches and went over to check if Kelso was
still awake.  Maybe the news that in three hours time he would be in
the capable hands of the medics aboard The Lady would bring a smile to
his face.

Finding him asleep, she decided not to wake him.

For the next forty-five minutes, the sky above the campsite remained
empty.  Jodi had never thought of herself as a patient person but since
meeting up with Kelso she had discovered a hidden reserve of that
precious commodity.  She needed to draw upon it now but with her
expectations raised by the friendly exchange with Hartmann she became
increasingly anxious as she began imagining all the things that could
go wrong.

Brickman might have offered her a reassuring word but they had agreed
to maintain radio silence in case one of the incoming planes picked up
the transmission.

The minutes ticked by with agonizing slowness, each one underscored
every ten seconds by Kelso's rhythmic snores.  It sounded as if his
nose was full of gravel.

Finally, she sighted three Skyhawks flying towards her, strung out in
line abreast.  She checked her watch then focussed the 'scope on each
of the planes.  These early birds all had clean sets of wheels and,
sure enough, they stayed high.  As their leader began to circle
overhead like a buzzard looking for breakfast, the outer pair turned
away north and south and kept on going.  These guys certainly weren't
taking any chances.

The handset crackled as it came alive: 'Blue Four to Snow Bird plus
one.  Update your sit-rep, over."

Jodi thumbed the Transmit button.  'Snow Bird to Blue Four.  We are
still up and running and have you in the frame, over."

'Roger Snow Bird.  Pick-up team report their ETA still stands at
sixteen-twenty hours on your green.  Blue Four listening out."

At ten minutes past four, Jodi sighted three more dots heading towards
her at a lower altitude.  The 'scope revealed that the lead and
starboard aircraft in the formation had short skis attacked to the
three-wheeled undercarriage.  When they drew near enough to be seen
clearly with the naked eye, the port 'wheeler' broke away to meet Blue
Four who had begun to descend in a gentle spiral.  His two companions
whose return had been timed to coincide with the Ski-hawks arrival
converged to follow the same flight path.  The 'wheeler' tacked
himself onto the end of the line as the trio levelled out some eight
hundred feet above Jodi's head, then all four began to orbit the
pick-up zone, chasing the tail of the man in front.

As the two Ski-hawks approached in a shallow dive, Jodie sent a green
flare soaring high into the air.  Passing under the arching trail of
smoke from the flare, the two planes skimmed past the campsite in rapid
succession, dipping their wingtips to within inches of the snow as she
bounced up and down, waving her arms excitedly.  Jodi watched them make
a second, higher pass to select a suitable landing site then dodged
back under cover and knelt beside Kelso.

'Dave!  Dave!  Wake up!  They'll be with us any minute!"  She patted
his cheek then shook his good shoulder excitedly as his eyes fluttered
open.  'We're on our way!"  Seizing the rope leads of the make-shift
sledge, she dragged Kelso out into the open.  Apart from the flare
pistol, the 'scope and the handset there was nothing else to carry.

Steve and the two Mutes had carried away the trail bags containing the
rest of their plunder.

The first of the two pick-up planes turned off its crosswind leg and
began its final approach from the northeast - to Jodi's right.  The
second, now flying downwind, was temporarily obscured by the trees
behind her.

Brickman and his friends would be able to see them both.  Jodi wondered
if he was having second thoughts.

She felt a sudden pang of regret at leaving him behind at the mercy of
those lump-heads, but what the hell - he had made his choice and she
had made hers.  She had found herself again.  And the inner certainty
about the rightness of her decision had given her the courage to face
whatever lay ahead.

Only one more hurdle remained to be cleared.  Having convinced Kelso
that Steve had been killed, she was now saddled with the task of
selling the story to everyone else.  All the way up the line.  And
unlike good o" Dave, their brains weren't befuddled with pain-killing
drugs.

She'd just have to do her best.  It was too late to back out now.  But
it would be the last lie.  The very last...

The second Ski-hawk was still on its final approach as the first slid
to a stop about fifty yards from where Jodi stood.  She pulled the
shapeless fur hood clear of her face and waved to the pilot as he
pushed open the canopy and climbed out, then she started to haul
Kelso's sledge towards it.  The pilot raised his tinted visor and
jogged towards her.  Behind him, the second aircraft touched down
smoothly on the undulating carpet of snow.

Jodi greeted the first wingman with a broad smile.

'Nice of you to drop in."  She thrust out her hand.  'Good to see you,
Gus."

Gus's eyes rested on her briefly then flickered away as he checked
their surroundings, easing his handgun in its holster as he did so.

When he'd gone full circle, he looked at her again - as if he couldn't
make up his mind as to whether she was worth rescuing or not.

Jodi thought that maybe he didn't recognize her.

'Kazan.  Jodi Kazan.  A year last April I was your--' 'Yeah, I
know..."

Gus gave the hand that was still on offer a perfunctory shake.  'What
happened to your face?"

'If you're that interested, ask me again when we get back on board."

Gus pointed to Kelso who lay strapped to the cargo hatch.  Beneath the
hatch, was a crude frame made of saplings which acted as runners.  'Can
he be moved off that contraption?"

'We can cut away the saplings but he has to stay strapped to the
hatch.

That's what's holding him together."

Gus swore under his breath and took one of the rope leads from Jodi.

'Okay, c'mon.  Let's get him stowed away and get the hell out of
here.

You can ride with Ruddock."

'Sure.  No Sweat..."

'He's one of the new boys.  Graduated this year.  I'm

Deputy Section-Leader now.  How about that?"

'Congratulations,' said Jodi.  'You've come a long way...

And you've got a long way to go.  Dickhead .  . .

They dragged Kelso towards Gus's plane.  Ruddock, the second pick-up
man, throttled back and drew up on the far side.  He left the motor on
tickover and ran over to help.  'How're we doin'?"

'Fine,' grunted Gus.  'Just get that frame ready while I cut this shit
off."  He drew his combat knife and started to saw through the raw
animal sinews that Cadillac had used to lash the sapling underframe to
the hatch.

Jodi did the same on the other side.

Ruddock folded down the buddy frame that was attached to the port side
of the Skyhawk's fuselage pod, clipped the upper and lower support
stays into position and deployed the clear plastic zip-up bodybag in
which the passenger would ride - protected from the gagging rush of air
and the freezing cold.

When the three of them offered up Kelso's aluminium stretcher, it was
clear that it wouldn't fit inside the body-bag.

'Awwwhh, SHIT!"  cried Gus.  'I don't fucking believe this!"  'It's
okay!"  cried Jodi.  'He's got two foil blankets wrapped around him
plus these furs.  Just cut the bag and use the front section to cover
his head!"  'But the hatch is too fuckin' wide!  The straps won't go
round it."

'Then DO something', you asshole!"  boomed Kelso.

'Just get me the fuck outta here!'

'Shut your face, soldier!"  snarled Gus.  'You're lucky we're here to
pull you out of this mess!'

'Go piss up your nose!'

Jodi banged her fist down on the hatch.  'Dave!  For crissakes!  Stop
making waves!"  She turned to Gus.  'We can lengthen them by using the
ones off Ruddock's plane!  I got two good hands to hang on with - and
believe me, after getting this far I ain't gonna let go!"  Ruddock was
already on the move.  'I'll get 'em..."

Jodi watched Gus take another anxious look around.

And she suddenly remembered what Steve had said.

This was the guy who had left him trapped in the wreckage of his
Skyhawk in the middle of a burning cropfield.  Underneath the bombast,
the guy was scared shitless at the prospect of coming face to face with
a bunch of screaming Mutes.

'This is one helluva job you're doing here,' she said soothingly.  'And
I know what's on your mind.  Relax.  I ain't seen nor smelt any
lumpshit for days."

'Yeah...?"

-From their hidden vantage point to the north of the pick-up zone,
Steve, Cadillac and Clearwater watched the proceedings.  Steve had his
eye glued to the 'scope.

Clearwater lay alongside him.

Cadillac who was kneeling a couple of yards behind them asked: 'What's
happening?"

'I'm not sure,' said Steve.  He had been trying to interpret the
gestures that accompanied the heated exchange between Jodi and the
pilots.  'They seem to have run into some kind of problem."

'Hope it's not serious."  Cadillac swung round and caught the eye of
one of the Kojak braves who was positioned deeper in the woods, some
fifty yards to his left.  Cadillac raised his left hand and brought it
down with a swift chopping motion.

The Kojak brave acknowledged his signal and placed his fingers together
in front of his mouth.  The shrill terror-stricken cry of a small
animal caught in the jaws of a sharp-toothed predator pierced the
silence for a brief instant.  Not loud, but chilling.

Startled by the sound, Steve rolled over onto his side.

'Jeer!  What the hell was that?"

Cadillac moved back alongside them.  'Some poor creature about to come
to a sticky end, I imagine.  Could I, uhh...?"

'Sure."  Steve placed the 'scope in the Mute's outstretched palm.

As Ruddock ran back with the two securing straps, the air around Gus's
Skyhawk was pierced by a quite different, but equally chilling sound.

Zzzzzzwheeeeee!

Gus ducked instinctively.  'What the fu--?"  Zzzzzzwheeeeee!  Something
else flew past them then - Zzzzzzvhikkk!  Zzzzzzzwhokkk.t Two crossbow
bolts hit the Skyhawk.  The first passed straight through the port tail
fin and kept on going.  The second entered the nose, just missing
Ruddock on the way in, and came to rest with six inches of the sharp
end sticking out the other side right where Gus White was standing.

Gus leapt away like he'd been electrocuted.  'Hoh-lee SHIT!"  He pulled
his gun out and dived for cover.

Ruddock joined him.  'Can you see 'em!?  Can you see 'em!?  Where the
hell are they!?"

Jodi knelt down beside them.  'Don't panic, boys.

They're a long way away."

'How can you tell!?"

'Because those guys don't usually miss.  If they were close, that bolt
would have skewered all three of us."

Jodi sighted along the embedded crossbow bolt and pulled out her
handset.  'Blue Four this is Snow Bird.

May Day.  We're under crossbow attack by unknown number of hostiles.

Estimate range one thousand yards from our position.  Watch my red for
bearing.  Over!"

Jodi tossed the handset to Gus and hurriedly loaded a red flare into
the fat-barrelled pistol.  Resting her hands on the top of the fuselage
above the bolt, she fired the flare towards the distant line of
trees.

The range was not one thousand yards but one thousand three hundred and
twenty-five.  She had gone out there with Brickman and the others to
lay the false trail during the night and she had mechanically counted
the paces on the way back.

And the red flare was aimed directly towards the point where she had
last seen them.  Jodi could not even begin to guess what had gone wrong
but there was nothing she could do to protect Brickman now.  If the
lump-heads he'd opted to run with had decided to get into a shooting
match it was a simple case of Them and Us.

Zzzzzzwhonkk!  A crossbow bolt sped in from a different direction and
bounced off the open canopy of Gus's Skyhawk.  Ruddock, who was tying
the extra straps to the pair on the buddy frame, ducked and swore, but
kept his fingers busy.

'See that!"  shouted Gus.  'Came from over there!"  He thumbed the
handset.  'Blue Four, this is Ground Hog One.  We got incoming fire
from hostiles at one o'clock as well as our eleven!  What are you
waiting for!?  Go get the suckers!"

'We're on our way, Ground Hog.  Blue Four out."

'Jodi fired a second red flare towards the right hand end of the
treeline as the four circling planes split into two pairs and dived
towards their invisible targets.

Ruddock grabbed her shoulder.  'Get over to my ship and pull down the
buddy frame.  Can you do that - and get into the bag?"

'Sure.  No problem."

'Okay, go for it!  Gus and I'll get your friend stowed away and I'll be
right with you."

Jodi dodged round the back of Gus's plane, crouched by the propeller
then darted towards the second Skyhawk.  Zzzzzzwheeeeee!  Another
crossbow bolt flashed past her.  Then a couple more, overhead this
time, wider of the mark.  Zzzzwheeeezzzzzwheeeee!

The lumps behind the crossbows must have realized those four planes
were now coming down to nail their asses.

A voice came into her mind.  Insistent.  Demanding.

Reminding her of something she had to do.  Yes, of course.  It all made
sense.  This wasn't an attack.  Nobody was meant to be killed.  This
was a diversion, to draw away the attention of those who might not
understand while she helped her friends .  . .

It might have seemed like a lifetime to Gus and the others who were
pinned down on the ground but the four orbiting Skyhawks were on the
case in under thirty seconds.  The delay was due to the fact that Blue
Four, flown by Sheela Cray, had to give Hartmann a rapid sit-rep
before she could obtain clearance to lay down covering fire.  But now,
at last, it was open season for Mutes.  Cray, who was leading the
attack on the left hand section of the wood, switched on the electric
motor that would spin the six barrels of the Thor needle-gun and placed
her right thumb on the firing button.  When she pressed it, Thor would
spit out a deadly hail of razor-sharp flechettes at the rate of twelve
hundred rounds a minute.

In the target area below, the twelve Kojak Mutes were already on the
move, racing back deeper into the wood and converging on the crude
shelter of woven saplings they had built during the night to Cadillac's
instructions whilst he and the other Sky Travellers had been busy
elsewhere.

Steve and Cadillac were still in the danger zone, locked in violent
argument and on the verge of coming to blows.  Clearwater, temporarily
forgotten by both men and oblivious to their presence, stood several
yards away, eyes closed, feet apart, hands on thighs, face turned
towards the sky, her mind turned to something beyond it.

'What the hell is going on?"  raged Steve.  'I thought you were in
control of these people I' 'Calm down!  They know what the score is.

Nobody's been killed.  All they did was take a few pot shots!"

'A few pot shots!?  Those apes nearly wrecked the whole fuggin'
exercise!"

'Don't you understand!?  These guys are warriors, Brickman!  That's the
enemy out there.  There's a question of pride involved here.  The
honour of the clan!

It took a lot of arguing to get them to hold back.  I had to agree to
let them make this gesture of defiance."

'Yeah?  I suppose it didn't occur to you that the guys up there might
respond with a little gesture of their own!"

'In that case we'd better get going."  Cadillac reached out to take
hold of Steve's arm.

Steve brushed his hand aside and turned towards Clearwater.

Cadillac grabbed him firmly.  'Don't interfere, Brickman!  She knows
what she's doing!"

Clearwater's body shook as the initial jolt of earth power entered
through the soles of her feet and travelled upwards to meet a similar
charge that came funnelling down from the sky like an invisible
lightning bolt.  The muscles in her body hardened, the sinews became
taut, her face turned into an implacable mask and when her eyes snapped
open, they glowed with an intensity as terrifying as the legendary
Medusa of ancient Greece, part-bird, part-beast, part-woman whose gaze
turned men to stone.

Her arms shot forwards and upwards, the index fingers pointing towards
the two oncoming planes and the shrill ululating cry that was the mark
of a summoner burst from her lips.  An inhuman, unearthly sound,
impossible to describe.  Heart-stopping, gut-shrivelling,
brain-piercing.

A sound that left an indelible scar in the minds of those who heard it,
turning bones to jelly and blood to water.

As she had learned in Ne-Issan, Clearwater could only enter the minds
of others if a door was open, but she had no need to confront those
whose blood lust was roused and whose killer instincts were directed
against herself or those she had been chosen to protect.  The energy
that fuelled their hatred acted as a conduit for her power, sucking it
into the very centre of their being.

The same madness that had seized Steve's classmate Fazetti over the
forests of Wyoming and caused him to turn upon his wingman, Naylor, now
gripped Mark Riddell, who was flying behind Sheela Cray.  He turned on
his laser ranging sight, brought the red dot onto the fuselage of
Cray's Skyhawk and blew her out of the sky.

The shattered plane flipped over to port and went in nose first.

Riddell didn't give it a second glance.  Only one all-consuming thought
filled his mind.  He had to protect the lives of those below from his
misguided companions.

Banking steeply to the right, he made a successful beam attack on the
leading Skyhawk then turned towards the fourth plane, piloted by his
friend Essex, and flew straight into him with a feeling of unutterable
rapture.

Ruddock who had run over to zip up Jodi's buddy bag froze momentarily,
his mouth and eyes wide open.  The scale of the disaster, its
inexplicable nature and the rapidity with which it occurred had left
him speechless.

Jodi, who sat up in time to see the last three planes go down shared
his sense of shock and desolation but she had already been introduced
to the destructive powers of a Mute summoner - and she recognized
Clearwater's handiwork.  But there was no point in trying to explain
what had happened to Ruddock.  No time either.

She wriggled back into the bag face down and hugged the frame.  'Don't
bother zipping me in!  Just get this thing out of here before the sky
falls in!"

Ruddock didn't need any further encouragement.  He leapt into the
cockpit, pulled down the canopy and slammed the throttle wide open.

Gus White's Skyhawk was ahead of them, racing away over the snow.  Jodi
saw it lift off and climb steeply, with Kelso strapped to the port
side.  A second or two later, they were in the air too.  A wonderful
buoyant feeling.  We made it, Dave.  We're going home...

Hartmann received the news of the successful pickup and the sudden,
spectacular loss of the four escorting Skyhawks soon after lift-off.

He thanked the two pilots for their part in the recovery operation and
wished them a safe return flight.  Hartmann knew something about
summoners.  The wagon-train commanders contributed to an unofficial
pool of knowledge, and the subject of summoners and Mute magic was one
of the items that were discussed in hushed whispers when two or three
of them got together.

There was no hard evidence of the existence of such people nor was
there a logical, or even plausible explanation of where their alleged
power came from but no one could deny that some appallingly destructive
force unconnected with natural phenomena had, from time to time, been
directed against the forces of the Federation.  More specifically, it
had been directed against The Lady.  In Wyoming, and now here.  A force
that could warp minds and conjure up a storm out of a clear blue sky.

Cray had been the first victim, but White had been uncertain which of
the other three pilots was responsible for the carnage.  It had a
depressingly familiar ring but Hartmann knew his thoughts on the matter
would have to be kept to himself and the few close associates whom he
could trust.  To talk about it publicly was a Code One violation.  Some
face-saving formula would have to be found for the official log.  But
this time, with four brand new planes involved, it would have to be
something more plausible than 'pilot error'.

Gus and Ruddock set down smoothly atop the snow on the port side of The
Lady and taxied back towards the flight car in the gathering dusk.  The
ground crew and some of the medics from the blood-wagon were waiting
alongside.  Hartmann had used the steam jets to blast away the snow
beneath the wagon-train and the ramp in the belly of the adjoining
section had been lowered for people to come in and out.

Buck McDonnell was on hand as Jodi slipped out of the bag on the buddy
frame.  He had been planning to smile but with the loss of four
wingmen, there was little to smile about.  Even so he was relieved to
see her.  He cast a jaundiced eye over her ragamuffin fur outfit.

'Kazan .  . . You look like something' people shoot for lunch."  He
threw his arm across her shoulders.  'C'mon.

The Old Man wants an urgent word with you.  In private."

'I'll be right with you - sir."  Jodi broke away as the medics started
to free Kelso from the buddy frame.  She listed his probable injuries
and the treatment she'd been able to give him, then added: 'I'd forget
the stretcher.

Best thing is to leave him strapped to that hatch until you get him
into surgical on a pre-op trolley."

The medic who'd come out to supervise Kelso's.

transfer to The Lady agreed.  'Good idea.  Okay, boys, let's do
that."

Jodi took a last look at her buddy.  His eyes had glazed over.  She
shook hands with Ruddock and waved to Gus White.  'Check you guys
later, huh?"

As she walked up the ramp with McDonnell, the flight crew chief
signalled the boom operator to start winching up Ruddock's Skyhawk.

Four ground crewmen stood on the lowered port bow lift ready to unhook
the plane and manhandle it into the twenty-foot-high hangar deck.

Below them, other members of the ground crew hurriedly folded the wings
and tail of Gus's plane and pushed it into position under the boom as
the first few flakes of fresh snow drifted down.

On board The Lady, the medics laid the cargo hatch and its
foul-smelling fur-wrapped load onto a trolley.

One of them stuck his nose close to Kelso's body.  'Think we've got
some gangrene here..."  They ran the trolley down the centre aisle
towards the blood-wagon, three cars aft of the ramp.

Moving forward, Jodi and McDonnell passed through the flight car before
Ruddock's Skyhawk came down on the forward lift.  With four planes
gone, there'd be a lot more room in the hangar.  And empty seats at the
mess table.  McDonnell ushered Jodi onto a battery powered wheelie
parked in a side bay and sent it gliding along the aisle towards the
command car.

The belly ramp of the wagon behind the flight car closed as the last
man came aboard.  Gus White's Skyhawk was brought down into the hangar
then the lift rose, sealing the rectangular hole in the flight deck.

The remaining wingmen and other crew members clustered round and
listened intently as Gus and Ruddock described how the whole operation
had almost gone down the tube.  Harmer, the hardnosed lieutenant from
Pueblo simmered with anger.  If his request to put his men out there on
the ground had been taken seriously it would have been lump-heads lying
gutted and bleeding into the snow instead of boys in blue.

In the blood-wagon, Surgeon-Captain Keever's team checked to see that
Kelso was still alive, and listened to the report of his suspected
injuries.  Keever decided to make a visual examination followed by a
top-to-toe sonar scan.  He told the medics to remove the straps holding
Kelso to the cargo hatch then cut away the furs and reflective foil
wrapped around his broken body.

Jodi and McDonnell stepped off the wheelie and entered the command
car.

Baxter, the Flight Operations Exec came down the steps from the
saddle.

'Is the Commander up there?"  asked McDonnell.

"Yeah.  He'll be down directly."  Baxter offered his hand to Jodi.

'Long time no see.  How does it feel?"

'To be back on board?  Kinda strange but - it gets better by the
minute."

'What happened to your face?"

Jodi fingered the disfiguring slab of pink scar tissue that ran down
the left side of her face and neck and responded with a twisted
smile.

'I got that when I kissed goodbye to The Lady.  I'm hoping the "welcome
home" is gonna prove less painful."

Baxter gave a disinterested nod then turned to McDonnell.  'Go on
through.  Everything's in there.  I'm just gonna catch up with my guys
in the flight car."

McDonnell shunted Jodi along the passageway into Hartmann's private
quarters.  A clean wingman's uniform lay in a neatly folded pile on the
bunk alongside a couple of fresh towels.  'Okay, strip off."

'Strip off...?"

'That's what I said, soldier.  We can't have you up front of the Old
Man looking like that.  So c'mon.  Peel that rancid junk off your back
and get in the shower."

Jodi looked confused.  'I - I - can't!"  She clutched her forehead.  It
felt as if someone was stabbing her brain with a red-hot knife.

'Kazan, I said strip off!"  He grabbed her by the shoulders and shook
her roughly.  'What the hell're you tryin' to pull!?"

Jodi shrank away, snarling like a cornered mountain cat as the pain in
her head reached a new crescendo.

'Get away from me, you sonofabitch!"  Her right hand flew towards the
combat knife tied to the outside of her thigh.  'Touch me again an'
I'll kill you!"  McDonnell's mental radar registered a troubling
echo.

There was something badly wrong and it called for immediate action.

His pile-driving punch knocked her senseless before the knife was clear
of its scabbard.  As he knelt over her crumpled body, he sensed someone
behind him.  Hartmann was in the doorway.

'How much did you get of that?"

'Enough."  Hartmann stepped inside and knelt down beside them.  'What's
going on, Buck?"

'Can't say, sir.  But I've got a feeling we're in deep shit."  As he
spoke, he started to rip the loosely sewn furs from Jodi's body.  He
came to the now grimy blue-grey cotton tunic she wore as a slave-worker
in Ne-Issan, pulled it open and saw what looked like a square stick of
wood wedged under the sash around her waist.  Except that this piece
had a radio-controlled detonator embedded in it.

'Christo!"  gasped Hartmann.  'That's not wood, that's--' 'A fucking
BOMB!!"  yelled McDonnell.  He grabbed hold of the stick of P3X, tore
the detonator out and flung it through the open door into the
passageway beyond.

'Sound the general alarm!"  Hartmann straightened up and lunged towards
the big red slam button on the wall by his video console.

The move which would have automatically sealed each wagon from its
neighbour came too late.

As five medics lifted Kelso off the cargo hatch, the detonator in the
passageway outside Hartmann's quarters shattered with a loud bang and
two simultaneous explosions ripped through the wagon-train.

The most catastrophic blast was centred on Ruddock's Skyhawk.  The
charge placed beneath the pilot's seat, caused the fuel tanks of the
adjacent tightly-packed aircraft to explode.  This, in turn, triggered
further detonations as the racks of napalm canisters and underfloor
pressurized fuel tanks ignited, causing the flight-car to erupt with
the convulsive fury of a mini-volcano.

Blazing fuel and glutinous fireballs of napalm combined into a hellish
tidal wave that swept along the aisles of the adjoining cars, engulfing
those standing in its path.  Two car-lengths away in both directions,
shocked crewmen had the presence of mind to close the emergency doors,
containing the fire but sealing the fate of all those trapped on the
other side.

'Among those who disappeared, or whose bodies were among those found
later, charred beyond recognition were Baxter, the Flight Ops Exec, Gus
White, Ruddock, Lieutenant Harmer, the remaining wingmen and the entire
ground crew.  And many other good men besides...

The second blast, in the blood-wagon, blew Kelso to pieces, killed the
five medics holding him and Surgeon-Captain Keever, and wrecked the
operating theatre.  Like all P3X explosions in confined spaces, it was
murderously efficient.  Several more of the hospital staff who were in
the compartment or working close by were either killed outright or
fatally injured.  Those lucky enough to survive emerged from the
debris, concussed, lacerated and badly burned.

The explosions were triggered by the same radio transmitter Steve had
used to such good effect during the escape from the Heron Pool, but it
was Cadillac and Clearwater who had engineered them.

Three charges remained from the Heron Pool exercise and, on landing
near the Hudson River, Steve had carefully removed them from the
rocket-powered gliders they had used for the first part of their
journey.  During the boat trip to Bu-faro, the plastic explosive,
detonators and the radio transmitter had been packed in the bag that
Cadillac had kept safely in his cabin.

From Bu-faro, the bag had been ferried to Long Point, stowed aboard
one of the stolen Skyriders then lugged through snow to the final
camp-site.  And when Cadillac had learned of Steve's plan to put Jodi
and Kelso on board The Lady he had decided to strike a blow that would
impress their hosts and remove, at a stroke, all further opportunity
for Steve to continue his double-dealing.

Using a length of twisted animal gut and a piece of bent metal prised
loose from the cargo hatch, Cadillac had rigged the handheld
transmitter so that the buttons controlling the three explosive charges
would be depressed when Kelso was lifted clear of the hatch.

The transmitter and one of the charges had been placed beneath Kelso's
body when they had checked his splints and bandages.  Clearwater had
then used her powers to enter Jodi's mind while massaging her neck.

Acting on a planted mental imperative, Jodi had concealed the second
charge against her own skin.  Later, during the diversionary attack by
the Kojak Mutes, she had taken advantage of the confusion to place the
remaining charge in Ruddock's Skyhawk.  She had no memory of having
carried out these actions but the original programme remained embedded
in her subconscious.

So when Buck McDonnell proposed an action that would reveal the charge
hidden under the tunic and thus violate the plan - she resisted like a
deranged zombie.

Kelso had been given the same treatment, making him insensible to the
lethal package placed in the small of his back.  Sudden, violent death
overtook him before his brain could register the sickening realization
that he had been betrayed.  It was ironic - for had there been time, he
would have cursed Steve with his dying breath.

Ironic and rather sad because, for once in his life, Steve was
blameless.  He had played it straight.  Well...

straight-/sh.  And he had ended up being outsmarted.

But at that moment in time, Cadillac hadn't told him the good news.  So
as the three of them ran northwards with their jubilant Mute escort,
Steve was unaware that The Lady from Louisiana lay gutted and burning
and that, with Kelso's death, his carefully-laid plans had also gone up
in smoke.

CHAPTER SEVEN

Even though there were no further falls of snow, it took Steve nearly
three days to cover the forty or so miles separating their abandoned
campsite and the Kojak settlement.  Hampered by the arrow wound in his
thigh he had been unable to match the pace set by the posse and
Cadillac had taken the opportunity to further underline his new-found
superiority by urging him on mercilessly.

Steve gritted his teeth and willed the pain to disappear but on the
second morning his leg simply gave way.

Stumbling forward like an exhausted horse, he ended up nose down in the
snow.

Cadillac stood by, hands on hips while two Kojak braves hauled his
rival upright.  There was a brief discussion as to whether he should be
carried the rest of the way on tracking poles but Steve, aware that he
risked losing any 'standing' he might have acquired as one of The
Chosen, insisted on arriving on his own two feet - in his own good
time.

Clearwater announced she would stay with him and asked for two braves
to accompany them as guides.  Since she had already demonstrated the
power to demolish any opposition they might meet on the way, there was
no lack of volunteers.  Cadillac pressed on with the remaining ten and
by the time Steve limped into the ring of firelight, he was already
installed in the principal place of honour.

Arriving ahead of the others enabled Cadillac to grab the lion's share
of the acclaim as his escort recounted what had happened and boasted of
the part they had played in the downfall of the four cloud-warriors.

Among the Plainfolk, this macho display was known as 'strutting their
stuff.

But that was not all, declared Cadillac, when it was his turn to
speak.

He had kept his promise to drive the iron snake back to its lair.  As
his escort would confirm, two of The Chosen, acting on his orders, had
used their power to enter the minds of the enemy, forcing the surviving
pair of cloud-warriors to carry them back, like avenging angels, into
the belly of the beast.

Even now, as he spoke, it lay broken and burning, consumed by the
deadly fire it harboured within its belly.

The clans to the west, whose turf lay closest to that of the valiant
Kojak would eventually pass on word of its dstruction by a series of
invisible blows striking with the force of earth-thunder.

In unleashing their awesome power, the Chosen ones had perished - but
not for long.  Their spirits, borne aloft on the flame-tinted smoke
would be gathered by Mo-Town, the Great Sky-Mother and returned to
earth in the bodies of mighty warriors.  What the fortunate braves had
witnessed - and the testimony of their neighbours would soon confirm
was the power of Talisman acting through those born in his shadow.

Heyyy, YAHHHH!  The cry came from close on a thousand throats.  The
subsequent celebrations, accompanied by ritual drumming, dancing and
chanting, and enhanced by copious lungfuls of rainbow grass had been
underway for most of the night when the tail-enders arrived.

Clearwater still rated a triumphal entry and was borne shoulder-high
into the crowded arena where a giant bonfire, ignited by the Kojak in
honour of their guests fuelled a scorching hot column of flame some
twenty feet high.  One of the more parsimonious elders estimated that
it had consumed, within hours, more than a month's supply of winter
fuel for the whole settlement but his carping fell on deaf ears.

Steve, the lame duck - literally and metaphorically was also warmly
received, but as he had not as yet figured in any spectacular action or
displayed any mystical attributes, he found himself relegated to the
sidelines.

Cadillac's new grandstanding style was beginning to get under Steve's
skin but he did not allow it to throw him off course.  In their present
situation, it was much better to have the Mute fired up with a good
head of steam.  His inherent personality problems would eventually
cause him to come off at the bend and Steve intended to be there when
it happened.  And this time, he would not be in any hurry to pick up
the pieces.  Besides, it was not all bad news: with the Mute's star now
in the ascendant he had accepted without demur Clearwater's expressed
wish to bed down with the competition.

Cadillac who, from an early age, had always taken a tremendously
earnest view of himself and his allotted.

role as Mr Snow's successor, was now very close to achieving the
philosophical detachment he had sought for so long.  Jealousy and other
petty emotions could not be allowed to deflect a true warrior from The
Path.

Cadillac's mind was now directed towards greater and far nobler
concerns - the forging of the Plainfolk into one nation in readiness
for the long-awaited coming of Talisman.

His rivalry with Steve was no longer centred around the possession of
Clearwater's body and soul: it was for the leadership of this great
enterprise.  Only he, Cadillac M'Call, descended from the bloodline of
the She-Kargo, the bravery of whose warriors had no equal amongst the
Plainfolk, possessed the qualities and the vision to assume the role of
the First amongst The Chosen.

In any case, his earth-longings were now amply catered for.  The
council of elders of the Clan Kojak, recognizing him as the chief
architect of the spirited attack on the cloud-warriors and the
predicted death of the iron snake had offered him a multiple choice of
the available female braves to grace the hut placed at his disposal.

To while away the long hours of darkness, Cadillac chose three
complaisant 'body-slaves' named Tight-Fit, Stone-Fox and
Afternoon-Delight.

Yes.  It was all beginning to come together.  Through his own quick
thinking, and Clearwater's power, he had reproduced his favoured
existence in the service of Domain-Lord Min-Orota except now, he had
'standing', the respect and admiration of his hosts; something the Iron
Masters had denied him.  The recognition of his abilities made him feel
whole again, gave him a feeling of boundless confidence.  That, plus
the generous pipefuls of rainbow grass and the attentions of his
fragrantly-oiled, full-bodied bedmates almost made up for the gnawing
desolation caused by the complete and utter lack of sake.

The clan's huts had been set up in a series of concentric circles in a
forest clearing to the west of what had once been known as Arlington
Heights; a sub-division of the pre-Holocaust city of Chicago.  Fur-clad
sentinels patrolled the perimeter and the paths through the otherwise
impenetrable undergrowth.  Other, unguarded paths were false trails
sown with hidden death pits bristling with sharpened stakes and other,
equally lethal, tree-mounted devices.

As a mark of honour, Steve and Clearwater were allotted a hut in the
'inner circle' normally reserved for the elders and other notables like
Carnegie-Hall and Flying-Tiger, the clan's paramount warrior.  Cadillac
and his three foxy ladies had taken up residence next to the wordsmith
whose hut lay on the opposite side.

The huts were shaped differently to those made by the M'Calls.  Steve's
previous hosts used a system of socketed frames and curved saplings to
build skin-covered huts shaped like the tops of button mushrooms about
five feet from floor to smoke ring whereas the Kojak used six straight
rough-hewn poles tied together near the top to form a triangular
structure over twice as high.  This meant you could stand up inside and
exit on your feet instead of having to crawl out through the doorflap a
marked improvement.  But despite the extra space, or perhaps because of
it, they were not as warm or as cosy as the womb-like constructions of
the M'Calls.

Steve crawled into bed as the celebrations slowly tapered off sometime
after dawn.  Clearwater followed, lying quietly beside him with
tantalizing submissiveness.

Steve was not immune to the warming presence of her naked body and the
delicious way it matched the curves and hollows of his own when he
turned his back to her.

But even when he felt that electrifying zing as she pressed that soft
spot between the top of her thighs against the base of his spine the
best he could manage was a mumbled, vaguely grumpy 'G'nite."  After
what he'd been through in the last ten days he could barely raise his
little finger let alone a head of steam - and he stayed buried up to
his nose under the thick layer of furs either asleep or dozing for the
rest of the day.

It was the morning after, when he woke up with hunger pains and a
terrible thirst and was searching through the tote bags for a fresh
wound dressing that he noticed the square sticks of explosive, the
detonators and the transmitter were missing.  The discovery made his
stomach turn over.  Two more increasingly frantic searches confirmed
his worst fears and he knew, with mind-chilling certainty who had taken
them - and why.

Throwing aside the doorflap, he strode across the central reservation
towards Cadillac's hut.

Clearwater who happened to be walking back from that direction met him
halfway.  One look at his face said it all.  'You know..."

'Damn right.  Where's Cadillac?"

'He's with Carnegie-Hall and the elders."  She blocked the way as he
went to step past her.  'If you want to talk--' 'Talk?!!"  Steve's fury
exploded.  He tried to brush her aside but she deflected his arm before
his hand reached her shoulder and took a firm hold of his wrist,
pulling it down to waist level in one swift movement.  'Vent your anger
then.  Let your wrath fall on me.  For without my help this thing could
not have been done."

'I have no quarrel with you.  The bone I've got to pick is with
Cadillac."

Her fingers didn't relax their vice-like grip.  'He and I acted
together.  I will answer for him."

Steve knew she was strong but this time he had the impression that, if
she tightened her fingers any further, she would crush the bones in his
wrist.  Her eyes were like sapphires set in ice, devoid of love or
compassion.

He relaxed the muscles in his body.  Whatever the provocation, he did
not intend using brute force to subdue her.

She relaxed her grip and led him towards the south side of the
settlement.  They passed through the last ring of huts towards the
dense surround of trees and when they were no longer in earshot of the
nearest clanfolk they came face to face again.

'The explosive I brought out of Ne-Issan.  Where is it?"

'It was placed in the belly of the iron snake."

Of course.  Where else... ?  'How?"

Clearwater told him.  The tone of her voice was neither triumphant nor
pologetic.  It all seemed so absurdly easy.  All Steve could do was
cling on to the vain hope that something might have gone wrong.  He
glimpsed Cadillac coming towards them as she ended her account with a
fatalistic shrug of the shoulders.  'This thing had to be done.  For
only by demonstrating our power could we obtain the necessary standing
in the eyes of our hosts and gain a secure shelter during the time of
the White Death."

'You'd already killed four wingmen!"  cried Steve.  He waved angrily at
Cadillac as the Mute reached them.

'Wasn't that enough for this conceited, lumpsucking sonofabitch?!'
'Grow up, Brickman.  That wagon-train had to be stopped dead in its
tracks.  Did you think it could just be wished away?"  Cadillac's tone
was mocking, triumphant.

Steve rounded on him.  'It would have pulled out once Grand Central
learned our carcasses had been carried off by Mutes!  That was the
whole point of putting Jodi and Kelso on board!'

Cadillac greeted this with a bitter laugh.  'Really?

We're not idiots, Brickman - and neither are your masters who rule the
Dark Cities.  Or have you forgotten Rozalynn, your kin-sister?  Even if
Jodi kept her promise and steadfastly held to the story that the three
of us were dead, whether under forced interrogation or worse, your
masters would know you were alive!"  'Not necessarily."  Steve hadn't
figured on the Mute getting that deep inside his skull.  He'd have to
tread carefully.  'Roz, uh... knows what the score is now."

'Oh?"  Another bitter laugh.  'And just what is the score, Brickman?

Your tongue and your intentions are as sinuous as the iron snake that
carried you to us in its belly!"  Steve fought down the urge to fatten
Cadillac's mouth."

'Jack me!  You got one helluva nerve coming out with shit like that!

The only reason you're standing there with your head on your shoulders
is because I promised Mr Snow I'd get you and Clearwater out of
Ne-Issan.  And damn nearly got my ass busted doing it!"  'Yeah?  You
wanna know the reason why your ass wasn't busted?  Because we saved it
for you!  You're so busy trying to claim all the credit, you've
overlooked the fact it was Clearwater who saved the day for all of
us.

And it was the planes I designed and built that gave us a flying start
on the road home!"  'You designed?!  Ha!  That's the best joke of
all!

If you hadn't hacked your way into my memory-bank, you wouldn't have
known how to join two pieces of wood together!'

'Oh, yeah?"

'Yeah!  You'd still be the same stupid lump-head I met in that
cropfield who didn't know one end of a rifle from the other!"  As the
words came out, Steve wished he hadn't said them but it was too late.

'You're right,' admitted Cadillac.  'Saving you was an act of
incredible stupidity born of conceit.  I should have let you burn."

'Stop this!"  cried Clearwater.  She lashed out with both fists,
striking them in the solar plexus.  The force of the blows made them
step back, breaking their nose-to-nose confrontation.  She moved in
between them.  'Is this the way The Chosen are to be remembered by the
Plainfolk?

Squabbling like bad-tempered children?!"  'Keep out of this,' said
Steve.  'Ever since we landed this ballon-head's been treading on my
toes and I'm not taking any more of it."  He squared up to Cadillac
again.

'Okay.  I was out of line with that cropfield stuff.  You saved my life
then, so I reckon that makes us even.  And yeah, you did put together a
few spruce and silk flutterbugs.  We won't bother to ask where the
sudden burst of expertise came from but there's one thing you can't
deny.  That project would never have gotten off the ground without
rocket-power."  He jabbed a thumb against his chest.  'And that was my
idea!"  Cadillac did not lose his new-found cool.  'Was it?  Was it all
your own work?  Or did you get a little help from your high-flying
friends you talked to every night?!  The same thoughtful people who
dropped whatever you needed into that pond at the back of the Heron
Pool?

What were they expecting in return?  These people who used their
influence with certain Iron Masters to secure us safe passage through
the domain of the Yama-Shita to the waters beyond?  What promise did
you give them?

The same you gave to Mr Snow?  To deliver us out of Ne-Issan?  Into
whose hands, Brickman?  Answer me!

Into whose hands?!"  Steve saw the same accusing look in Clearwater's
eyes but he managed to conceal his confusion.  'Nice try, amigo.  But
you can't score off me with this one because I've got nothing to
hide.

The Federation dropped those supplies to me 'cos they thought I was
working for them.

Sure .  . . they sent me out to capture both of you.  I accepted the
assignment because it was the only way I could get back up onto the
overground.  They had me over a barrel because of the threats to harm
Roz.  I figured once I got out here I might be able to find a way to
get her off the hook--'

'By capturing us."

'No!"  cried Steve.  'I went along with the idea to buy some time - so
as I could get things sorted out!  But when I got into this mess I had
no idea you were in Ne-Issan.  I couldn't see much hope of rescuing you
but .  . . when you didn't turn up at the trading post Mr Snow was so,
well - distressed, I agreed to give it a try."

He glanced at Clearwater then said: 'If you want to know the whole
truth, she's the reason I came riding to the rescue.  I didn't really
care what happened to you but since the Old One was due to die and the
clan couldn't function properly without a wordsmith..."  He threw up
his hands.  'My only concern now is to make sure you're delivered
safely to Wyoming."

'And you're not planning any more betrayals on the way."

Clearwater opened her mouth to protest but Cadillac silenced her.  'I
have every right to ask such a question!  If the cloud-warrior is ready
to betray his blood-brothers how can we be sure he will not turn
against us?!"

Steve's eyes met Clearwater's and held them.  The blue of her pupils
had softened.  'Ask this lady here.  She knows what the truth is.  I
came back to the overground because - don't ask me why - this is where
I feel I belong.  With her."

Her gaze did not waver.  'Your words bring warmth to my heart,
cloud-warrior.  But what will become of your kin-sister?"

'Can't say.  But while we were crossing towards Long Point, her voice
entered my mind.  It was she who told me to stay with you.  She no
longer fears those who are trying to control our lives."

'So you have chosen to throw in your lot with the Plainfolk."

'Isn't that obvious?"

Cadillac laughed derisively.  'A typically devious reply from the man
who can never answer with a straight "yes" or "no"!  In a few days with
luck - we'll know if our coup against the wagon-train was successful.

If it is, then last year's slaughter of our clan-brothers and sisters
will have been partly avenged and we will have earned ourselves a safe
haven for the winter.

'But do you know the real reason why I planted those explosive charges
aboard The Lady?  To put an end once and for all - to your
double-dealing!  To force you to choose sides by leaving you only one
side to be on!  If those charges have gone off as planned, many will
die and that murderous machine will be permanently crippled.

'There will be questions, investigations, accusations.

And in the end, the finger will point at the one person with the means,
the opportunity, and the necessary degree of ruthlessness and duplicity
to commit such an outrage.  Not some stupid lump-head who doesn't know
one end of a rifle from the other, but you, Brickman.

'So you can kiss goodbye to the idea of keeping a line open to your
powerful friends in case things don't work out the way you'd planned.

You're with us from here on in, whether you like it or not."

There was no doubt about it, thought Steve.  He had seriously
underestimated Cadillac.  The young Mute was a lot sharper than he'd
thought.  But then - why wouldn't he be?  How foolish not to have
realized that he was now pitting his wits against a mental mirror image
of himself!

He appraised each of them in turn, trying to guess how well he had
defended his corner.  Since the last climactic, blood-soaked day at the
Heron Pool, his relationship with Clearwater had moved onto another
level.

Although less feverish, the physical relationship was still as strong
as ever but other, more disturbing elements now lurked in the depths,
like the cold lake-creatures that had brushed against his naked body
during his moonlight swims, sending shivers down his spine.

At times, when the brilliant blue was veiled with grey, her eyes became
those of a stranger, filled with a mysterious, brooding malevolence.

Not directed at him personally, but at the world - or perhaps at the
world he represented.

But not now.

Now they were the eyes he had seen in that perfectly-formed face
half-hidden among the ranks of M'Call warriors on the night he had
bitten the arrow.

The eyes that had lain in wait for his, capturing his heart and mind,
drawing him into a web of intrigue, deception and high adventure.  A
dangerous, mind-twisting game which, if the Talisman Prophecy was
fulfilled, would end in the death of one nation and the birth of
another.

He sent Clearwater a silent message and on receiving the reply he
sought, he focused his attention on Cadillac.

Any anger he felt was concealed beneath a note of grudging
admiration.

'I've gotta hand it to you, Caddie.  I didn't think you had it in
you.

Even if the idea of taking.

out The Lady had occurred to me I don't think I could have used Jodi
and Kelso as bomb-carriers.  Still... now that it's done and you've
both explained why, there's no hard feelings."

'I'm glad to hear it."

'No, I mean that.  When you think of it as an abstract problem you came
up with the ideal solution.  In fact and I hate to say this - it was
pretty damn brilliant."

'I had a good teacher..."

Steve caught the irony but he could see that the new Cadillac lapped up
compliments just like the old model.

He laughed.  'I doubt if I can teach you anything now.

But you're wrong about one thing.  It's true about me trying to keep a
line open to the Federation but it wasn't because I was planning some
kind of double-cross.  I was hoping to use the connection to our
advantage and give Roz time to get her act together but.  you've
decided to do it the hard way."  He shrugged.  'I can live with that.

So why don't we wipe the tape and start again from the top?"

Drawing his knife, he slit open one of the small veins on the inside of
his right wrist and extended his hand towards Cadillac.  The Mute made
the same ritual cut then they gripped each other's forearms in a
Roman-style greeting.

Clearwater cupped her hands round their wrists, pressing them together
so that their blood mingled.

'Now you are truly brothers.  Let there be peace and friendship between
you.  Offer love and loyalty to your clansmen, dedicate your life to
the service of Talisman and save your anger and hatred for the enemies
of the Plainfolk.  Do you so swear?"

'On this, our blood, I swear,' said Cadillac.

Steve repeated the oath with appropriate solemnity.  It meant as much
as the Tracker Prayer he'd mouthed daily for fifteen of his eighteen
years.  But it was an arrangement he could live with until the time
came to get even .  . .

With his air component and medical team wiped out in two swift hammer
blows, upwards of a hundred dead and with scores of injured crewmen who
could only be given basic first aid, Hartmann had no alternative but to
withdraw southwards.

Abandoning the two shattered wagons plus three which had been
completely gutted by fire, Hartmann reformed The Lady and headed back
across the Cedar River towards navref Des Moines.  On learning the bad
news, CINC-TRAIN wired back the necessary approval and ordered The Lady
to head for the Monroe/Wichita interface.

The choice of Monroe instead of the wagon-train's home depot at
Nixon/Fort worth was significant.  It made sense to disembark the
casualties at the nearest divisional base where they could receive
skilled medical attention but it was also to be the end of the line for
Hartmann and his execs.  Monroe/Wichita was the terminus for the
northern spur of the Trans-Am Expressway and the last paragraph of
CINC-TRAIN's signal listed everyone from Hartmann down to and including
Trail-Boss McDonnell who were required to board the first available
south-bound shuttle.

Those named had no illusions about the kind of reception awaiting them
at Grand Central, and the atmosphere aboard The Lady on the homeward
journey was as grim and bleak as the winter landscape that fought them
remorselessly, every inch of the way.

Jodi Kazan, on recovering from McDonnell's knockout blow, was found to
be in deep shock; a condition that was later diagnosed as catalepsy.

She seemed incapable of speech, did not respond to questions, and did
not react to her surroundings or any other external stimuli, such as
when food was placed before her.  Unable to stand unaided, she lay
vacant-eyed on her bunk.  When placed on a chair, she remained in the
position chosen by whoever put her there, like one of those
stiff-jointed mannikins used by artists.

CINC-TRAIN, who had been told of her role in the attack on the
wagon-train, ordered her to be confined to a punishment cell until
handed over to the Provost-Marshal's office at Monroe/Wichita.

When The Lady reached the interface, the Base PM came aboard personally
to place Hartmann and the other fall-guys under close arrest, and Jodi,
now wearing a defaulter's black jumpsuit with a big yellow X front and
back, was hooded and shackled and put aboard the same shuttle.

The injured crewmen, mostly bum cases, were off-loaded together with
the bodies of those who had died en route and the victims of the two
initial explosions who had been identified.  Those blasted or charred
beyond recognition had been buried in a mass grave cut by the remaining
'dozer on the banks of the Mississippi.

A new, stripped-down team of execs came aboard to run what was left of
The Lady back to Fort Worth, closely followed by six grey-uniformed
Assessors.  The legal eagles took over the aft command-car and
immediately notified their presence by screening a preliminary list of
crewmen required for interrogation.

By the time The Lady reached Fort Worth, everyone on board at the time
of the disaster had been thoroughly questioned and some, judged to be
implicated in the overall failure to apply the proper on-board security
measures, finished up in the slammer.

With the aid of drugs, an AMEXICO medical team who were no strangers to
mind control - managed to neutralize the mental imperative Clearwater
had planted in Jodi's brain, and restore her to some semblance of
normality.  The failure to carry out the order to destroy herself and
The Lady had triggered complete mental and muscular paralysis; a
self-inflicted punishment that without remedial treatment could have
eventually killed her.

Once programmed, Jodi was like a computer which throws itself into a
loop trying to obey an instruction it is unable to execute; a condition
known as 'lock-out'.  The only way to break the cycle is to pull the
plug on the machine before it goes round the bend and burns out the
motherboard.

Karlstrom, the head of AMEXICO met the President-General to discuss how
the investigation should be handled.  They decided that Hartmann and
those arrested with him should appear before a Board of Assessors, but
because of the sensitive nature of much of the evidence, those selected
to conduct the proceedings would all be disguised members of the First
Family who knew of the existence of AMEXICO and were also familiar with
the Talisman Prophecy and the concept of 'Mute magic'.

Karlstrom agreed to take the role of President of the Board, and the
P-G also nominated Fran Delano Jefferson - a young relative of his, who
was Steve Brickman's controller.  The nomination raised Mother's
eyebrows but when the P-G explained what he had in mind, Karlstrom
found himself wishing he'd thought of it first.

Jodi squared her shoulders and snapped to attention as the young
dark-haired woman entered the interrogation room.  Her hood had been
removed when her escort left the room but she still wore wrist and knee
shackles and was chained to a floor loop.  The woman who was dressed in
a grey jumpsuit - the uniform worn by the Legal Division - sat down at
the desk in front of Jodi, activated the video and adjusted the angle
of the screen.  She keyed in a call-up code and read the top line on
the screen, '2086-5341 Kazan, J.R?"

'Yes, sir-ma'am."

'Take the weight off your feet."  The dark-haired woman smiled
sympathetically as Jodi sat down on the moulded cushionless swivel
chair fixed to the floor' behind her.  'I'm sorry about the chains but
it's regulation - you understand?"

'Yes, sir-ma'am."

'You can drop the "Sir",' said the dark-haired woman.

'Maybe I'd better start by introducing myself.  I'm Nancy Reagan
Delaney."  She smiled.  'Could be coincidence but maybe they picked me
because you and I both come from the same base.  Anyway ... because
yours is a somewhat complex case, the Legal Division has appointed me
as your defence counsel."

She smiled again as she noted Jodi's surprise.  'I know.

I had a similar reaction.  Code One offenders are not normally allowed
to enter pleas of mitigation.  But as I said, you're considered to be a
special case."  The woman glanced at the screen.  'Your record - up to
the time you went over the side is exemplary and I want you to know
that I intend to do my utmost to see that after due process, the Board
moves for an acquittal.

'But before you say anything, I must warn you that I will not be
allowed to be present during the hearing.  My plea on your behalfwhich
I hope to construct from these interviews - will be presented for the
consideration of the court before you come before the Board of
Assessors.  So tell me, Jodi - are you prepared to confide in me on
that basis?"

'Yes, ma'am.  I realize my situation doesn't look too good but I have
nothing to hide."

'I'm pleased to hear it."  Delaney scrolled through the data she'd
already called up on the screen.  'In my book, anyone who's earned five
stars and the kind of commendations I see listed here is a True Blue
who knows exactly what they're doing and why."

For the first time since boarding The Lady, Jodi started to feel like a
human being again.  She felt immensely reassured by the woman facing
her but at the same time it was a strange experience.  Delaney could
almost have been her kin-sister.  She had an oval face and short
lustrous dark hair - except Delaney's was parted on the right and swept
neatly back over her ears whereas her own unkempt locks had been shorn
off, leaving her with a boot-camp crewcut.

She also had a wider fuller mouth and larger, violet-blue eyes whereas
Jodi's lips had thinned out from years of playing hard-ball with the
hairy-assed TrailBlazers under her command, and her deep-set eyes were
the colour of weathered granite.  And of course, her own face was
hideously scarred down the left hand side whereas...

Delaney placed her forearms on the desk and laid her hands one on top
of the other.  'Let me tell you what my biggest problem is .  . .

Commander Hartmann and the Trail-Boss of The Lady have both made
statements in your defence.  They believe you did not knowingly, and
with intent, carry explosives onto the wagon-train."

'It's true, ma'am.  I didn't."

'I want to believe you.  But apart from the two pilots, you and Kelso
were the only people to get within an arm's length of the two Skyhawks
you flew out on.  Now we know it couldn't have been Steve Brickman or
the two Mutes that were with you because we have a tape of you telling
Commander Hartmann they'd been killed some days previously.  So since
it's obvious that Kelso wasn't in a position to do anything, it must
have been you.  Why don't you just admit to the charge and get this

business over with?"

'Because I didn't do it, ma'am!  I wouldn't do anything to harm my
trail-mates.  I joined The Lady when Commander Hartmann became
wagon-master and I've served the--' Delaney cut off the rest of the
sentence with a slicing movement of her hand.  'I know all about your
record.

But strange things happen when people become renegades.  Their
attitudes change - sometimes quite profoundly.  It's something in the
air.  They become...

contaminated."

'I didn't become a renegade, ma'am.  I was found by renegades.  The
group never undertook any hostile action against units of the
Federation and anyway, for most of the time I was with them, I was
recovering from the injuries I sustained when my Skyhawk--' 'Yes, yes,
I know all about that.  You still haven't explained who, if it wasn't
you, planted those explosives charges.  On Kelso, in one or both of the
Skyhawks that landed, and how you came to be carrying another charge
concealed on your person."

'I didn't know they were there, ma'am I swear it!'

'So you keep saying.  I'm trying to help you, Jodi, but you're not
helping me!  You resisted an order to remove your clothes - and even
tried to draw a knife in an effort to delay the discovery of the
explosives you were carrying.  Two witnesses, senior officers - fellow
Trail-Blazers you profess to care about, have testified that you were
only a split second away from destroying the forward command car
killing them and probably everyone else in the saddle!"  The accusation
brought tears to Jodi's eyes.  'I didn't do it, ma'am.  At least I
didn't know I was doing it.  They must have made me--'

'They...?"

Jodi's mouth fluttered open.  'B-b-beg pardon, ma'am?"

'Don't play games with me!"  Delaney slammed her palm against the
desktop.  'You said "They made me do it".  Who are we talking about,
Jodi?"

The expression on Jodi's face reflected her mental anguish.

'Brickman's still alive, isn't he?  And so are his Mute friends.  You,
the loyal Trail-Blazer, the True Blue - or so you would have us believe
- lied to Commander Hartmann, didn't you?  He trusted you - like
McDonnell and the rest of the crew - and you betrayed them.  Am I
right?"

Jodi hung her head as her eyes flooded with tears.

'That's the way it looks ma'am, but..."

With a tired gesture, Delaney tapped out the command to clear the
screen then sighed.  'I'm sorry, Jodi.  I don't think there's anything
I can do for you.  It's obvious what happened.  You and Brickman saw
the patrols from The Lady and realized the game was up."

'No ma'am, it wasn't like that,' murmured Jodi.

Delaney ignored her.  'It was only a matter of time before you were
found and brought in.  You knew the punishment meted out to
renegades.

There was nothing to lose.  You lied because you were a willing party
to Brickman's plan to destroy The Lady."

'No!  It's not true!"  cried Jodi.  'He didn't have anything to do with
it!  Neither did I - at least, not knowingly.  She must have made me do
it - the same way she made those Skyhawks destroy each other!"  'Oh,
really?"  Delaney had cleared the screen, but their conversation was
still being secretly videotaped.  'Tell me about that."

Jodi recounted how she had watched with growing horror as the second
Skyhawk in the first formation blasted the lead aircraft out of the sky
then turned on his colleagues, shooting one down before crashing into
the other - with fatal results for all concerned.

Delaney listened with a blank expression.

Jodi then described what had happened after Clearwater had entered the
fray at the Heron Pool.

When she reached the point where Domain-Lord Hiro Yama-Shita had thrust
his sword through his body eight times before falling dead at
Clearwater's feet, Jodi paused and grimaced ruefully.

'I know I'm committing a Code One offence in claiming to have witnessed
Mute magic but every word of what I've told you is true.  One more
violation - what difference does it make?  I'm finished anyway.  But I
figure if you or someone could get word to the First Family and let
them know what some of those lump-heads are capable of, they might be
able to do something about it.  At least that way, my death would serve
some purpose."

Delaney responded with a sympathetic smile.  'The thought does you
credit even if the events, as you describe them, are totally
unbelievable."

'Ma'am, if I hadn't been there I'd've reacted in exactly the same
way.

But it's the truth.  I swear it.  And there's something else I think
you ought to know.  Brickman wasn't a renegade.  He was an undercover
Fed2

Delaney looked puzzled.  'An undercover Fed...?  I don't think I
understand you."

'It's Trail-Blazer jargon for some kind of secret agent..."

'Did he tell you that?"

'Yes - 'cept he didn't use that word.  And I accidentally found out
Kelso was one too.  As to what outfit they were working for, or who's
in charge.  all that side of thing's a mystery.  They didn't say and I
didn't ask.  Officially such people don't exist - right?  But this is
not something I dreamt up.  This is a big deal - and the guys running
it are tied in with the nips who helped us get out of Ne-Issan."

'I see..."  Delaney mulled over this latest disclosure then sat back
and placed her elbows on the arm rests of her padded chair.  Steepling
her fingers, she said: 'Go back to the beginning.  I want to know
everything that happened from when you went over the side during the
storm."

Jodi took a deep breath and launched into her story.  It took quite a
time.  But then it was quite a story.

When she got to the point where she and the others had transferred to
the powered inflatables just before dawn and were heading across Lake
Erie towards Long Point, Delaney checked her wristwatch then leant
forward and raised her hand.  'Okay, we're going to have to hold the
rest over.  Tell me - referring back to our earlier discussion - whose
idea was it for you to try and get back on board The Lady?"

'Mine, ma'am.  Soon as I saw those white wing-tips, I knew what I had
to do."

'Ye-esss, I can imagine .  . ."

Jodi leapt to attention with a rattle of chains as COunsellor Delaney
rose from behind the desk and eyed her reproachfully.

'A slow start but we may eventually get somewhere.

However, I must say I'm very disappointed you had to be pressured into
admitting you covered up for Brickman and his Mute friends.  It
seriously weakens the case I was hoping to make on your behalf.  And in
view of your latest claim about Brickman and Kelso I am now obliged to
seek the guidance of my superiors.  I leave in a less hopeful state
than when we began.  Perhaps you will reflect on that."

'Yes, sir-ma'am!'

Delaney nodded curtly.  'Good.  Till tomorrow then..."  Pressing the
delayed-action buzzer to call the Provo escort waiting in the next-door
office to take Jodi back to the cells below, she left the room.  At the
end of the short corridor was an elevator that could only be operated
by those carrying the very highest levels of ID-cards.  The buzzer
summoning the meat-loaves - by now totally bored out of their skulls
did not sound until the doors closed, concealing the identity of the
exalted passenger.

As Delaney was carded melodiously upwards in deep-pile carpeted luxury
to the higher levels of the White House, she carefully removed the
violet-bluo contact lenses to reveal the less striking but more
compelling grey-brown eyes belonging to Franklynn Delano Jefferson one
of the President-General's favourite nieces, and controller, for the
last six years, of Steve and Roz Brickman.

The next day, when Jodi was brought up for interrogation, she found
that Delaney was accompanied by a man of indeterminate age; slim build,
medium height, lean angular face topped by a high forehead and dark
eyes that missed nothing.  He was dressed, like Delaney, in the grey
uniform of AMEX's Legal Division.

The thin, hard mouth and jaw suggested this was a man used to getting
what he wanted.  But the reassuring lines that converged on the corners
of the eyes and the quirky twist to his lips said this was a man who
used intelligence and humour to elicit the truth instead of a blackjack
and a bath-tub full of cold water.

'This is a colleague of mine,' said Delaney.  'He has special knowledge
of the, uh .  . . areas you mentioned yesterday.  You may talk freely
with him of matters I'm not qualified to discuss."  She turned towards
the door.

'Uh... beg pardon, sir-ma'am--' Delaney stopped and looked back
expectantly.

'Does, uh - does this mean you're no longer going to act as my defence
counsellor?"

'Not necessarily..."

Karlstrom took over as Delaney walked out.  'Because of the complex
nature of this case the full facts may have to be withheld from the
Board of Assessors.  In order to make sure you get a fair shake, the
Department will probably modify or annul the sentence when it comes up
for confirmation or... we may find a way to avoid you coming up for
trial."

'I understand, sir.  Thank you, sir."

'Delaney and I are here to offer whatever help we can."  A hint of a
smile.  'There are always ways of accommodating deserving cases such as
yourself-providing, of course, you tell us everything - exactly the way
it happened."

'I will, sir.  I don't have anything to hide."

'Yes .  . . well, not now perhaps.  However, I should warn you, I've
been allowed access to certain files.  The First Family know a great
deal more about Brickman and his friends than you might think."

'I came back in of my own free will and at the first opportunity,
sir.

I'm here to tell the truth."

'Good.  Tell me the whole story from the beginning."

Jodi looked confused.  'From when I went over the side of The Lady?"

'No.  From when you went over the side of that fishing smack on Lake
Erie into the powered inflatable and decided to throw your lot in with
Brickman and his Mute friends."  Karlstrom's lips tightened into a thin
smile as he noted Jodie's discomfiture.  'Delaney told me you were
having problems trying to recall certain recent events.

Do you think you can remember that far back?"

'Yes, sir."  Jodi told him what had happened: explaining why she
changed her mind while still being held in the slave-dealer's compound
at Bu-faro, how Kelso had agreed with her, telling Steve, and the
collective decision to make the break at Long Point.

'You needn't tell me how,' said Karlstrom, 'I've read a copy of the
report made out by the person you know as SideWinder."

Jodi picked up the story at the point where she had accidentally
overheard Kelso passing a message through SkyBucket Three to someone
called 'Mother'.  She had no inkling that Mother, the head of AMEXICO,
was standing right there in front of her.

She went on to give details of the crash landing and the subsequent
trek through driving snow, the encounter with the Mutes and the
appearance of the Skyhawks from The Lady.  The reassuring sight of
their white-tipped wings had aroused an overwhelming desire to be
reunited with her trail-mates.  Brickman on the other hand, had greeted
her decision to go back in with astonishment.

'Astonishment...?  Are you sure?"

'Yes, sir.  He tried to talk me out of it.  Said they'd

probably send me to the wall and shoot Kelso out of hand - because of
his injuries."

'Did you believe him?"

'Yes sir.  I've seen summary executions of renegades in the field
whilst serving aboard The Lady and I've watched 'em going to the wall
on Channel Nine.  I told him I didn't care what happened to me.  It was
Dave I was concerned about."

Karlstrom gave an understanding nod.  'And that's when you told
Brickman that Kelso was an undercover agent .  . ."

'Yes, sir."

'How did he react?  Was he surprised?  Angry?  Or did.

you get the impression you were telling him something he already
knew?"

'Well, sir - with Brickman it's sometimes kinda hard to tell.  He
looked both surprised and upset - but it was more to do with the fact
that I hadn't told him earlier."

'But Brickman showed no sign of changing his mind and coming in with
you."

'No, sir."  Jodi fed Karlstrom the edited version.  'He'd gotten
himself tied in to some kind of deal with the two Mutes who came out of
Ne-Issan with us.  Don't ask me what it was.  All I know is they and
Brickman had to get to Wyoming.  Maybe he explained things to the big
guy with the red bandana.  Side-Winder."  She spread her hands.  'You
gotta understand, sir.  When you've got Trackers walking around - not
only painted up but with lumps stuck in their faces, and others
pretending to be renegades it's kinda hard for a simple-minded dog
soldier like me to know which way is up!'

'Ye-esss, it must be..."

'The thing was, Brickman sorta came round to my way of thinking but I
was worried that the Mutes wouldn't let me and Kelso get back on
board.

That's when I offered--' '--to lie on his behalf and say that he and
his two friends were dead..."

Jodi felt the undamaged side of her face go pink with embarrassment
'Yes, sir.  After that he was one hundred per cent behind the idea."

'I imagine he was..."

Jodi was acutely conscious that her testimony was proving as damaging
to Steve as it was to herself.  This was not how she'd wanted it to
go.

'I'm sure he had a good reason, sir."

'So am I. What happened then?"

Jodi told him about taking a midnight stroll while Steve and Kelso had
their fireside chat.

'Any idea what they talked about?"

'No, sir.  But I think it must have been something secret 'cos Brickman
wouldn't let me listen.  He said I already knew too much for my own
good.  They talked for about twenty minutes or so."

'More than enough time for Brickman to plant the explosives."

'No, sir!  When I got back, Dave - I mean, Kelso was still conscious!

And anyway, if I'm supposed to have planted the explosives in the
Skyhawk and inside my shirt, how did he make me do that?"

Karlstrom shrugged lightly.  'Brickman's a very persuasive fellow.  He
talked you into helping him get those Mutes out of Ne-Issan - and you
offered to lie to save his skin even though you knew you could be sent
to the wall.  Blowing yourself to pieces is messier than facing a
firing squad but the end result is the same.  And a lot faster, too."

'No, sir!"  cried Jodi.  'If I'd been sent to the wall only I would
have died!  The sole reason for coming back in was to try and save
Kelso's life!'

'The sole reason...?"

'No, no, uhh - I mean the main reason,' stammered Jodi.  'The two Mutes
wanted to kill Dave!  I offered to cover up for Brickman because it was
the only way I could get them to cooperate!"  'And once you were safely
aboard, you were going to tell your commanding officer you'd been
forced to lie and that Brickman was still alive..."

'I never got the chance, sir."

'No.  You were too busy trying to blow up The Lady."

'That wasn't my doing, sir.  I tried to explain that to the counsellor
yesterday."

'Yes, she told me.  It's certainly an intriguing idea..."

'That's the way it happened, sir.  Brickman didn't have anything to do
with it.  It was Cadillac and Clearwater.

They're from the clan M'CaI1.  Their turfs in Wyoming.

It was The Lady's wingmen who fired their crops last year and strafed
their warriors with napalm then when they tried to hit back, The Lady
took 'em apart.

'They had both motive - revenge - and opportunity."

Jodi told Karlstrom what happened during the night prior to the
pick-up, and backed up her thesis with an account of the skills and
knowledge Cadillac had displayed in Ne-Issan.

Karlstrom allowed Jodi to present her case without interruption then
said: 'Thank you.  If this is true, it seems that Brickman bears a
great deal of responsibility for allowing - perhaps even encouraging
this transfer of knowledge to one of the enemy.  You know the official
view of Mute magic but we will bear in mind the possibility that you
may have been subjected to some ... how shall I put it - unorthodox
mind-warping techniques?

'However, because of the prima facie case against you arising out of
the attack on The Lady you will remain in detention for the time
being--' Jodi shot out of her chair and stood rigidly to attention.  'I
understand, sir!"

'--charged with a Code One offence .  . ."  He gave her a narrow-eyed
look.  Karlstrom did not like being interrupted.  'I don't need to
underline the seriousness of your present situation but bear in mind my
opening remarks about the special nature of this case.  You will
undergo a thorough debriefing covering the period between your last
take-off from The Lady and your return.

'You've already gone through much of this with Delaney but I'm sure I
can count on your wholehearted cooperation."

'Yesssirr!"

'On the other hand, don't go overboard.  In your own interests and that
of the Federation, I advise you to structure your replies to avoid any
mention of "Mute magic".  It's entirely up to you, of course.  I'm not
asking you to tell lies."

'No, sir.  How d'you mean, sir?"

'Just stick to the facts, don't embellish them.  Take the incident at
the Heron Pool.  You could describe what you thought you saw then, and
on any other similar occasion where you were an eye-witness.  Just take
care not to make it sound too far-fetched and, above all, don't attempt
to explain it.  The last thing we want is for your mental state to be
called into question.  D'you follow me?"

'Yesssirr!"

'Good.  I can't promise anything but I'll do my level best to see you
get a fair shake."

The following day, Karlstrom and Fran Jefferson were summoned to the
Oval Office.  The President-General had already scanned the edited
voice-tapes and text summaries of the two interviews.

'What d'you think, Ben?  Have they turned him?"

'This is one of those times when I don't have a neat answer."  The set
of Karlstrom's mouth plus a tired wave underlined his frustration.  'We
always knew Brickman was a tricky customer.  But then I've got a
naturally suspicious mind."

'We both have,' said the P-G.  'That's why I'm still in the hot seat
and you're head of AMEXICO."

'It certainly helps.  But we both know there's more to it than that."

'Absolutely.  But this is no time to dwell on the mysteries of natural
selection and the precarious path of preferment."  The P-G swivelled
his chair a few degrees to his left and aimed a questioning glance at
Fran.

'I'm sticking with the Commander-General's original reading of the
runes - based on what happened at Long Point and events prior to
that.

I think Brickman's still on the case,' she said.

'It's possible.  But then, as his controller, you're going to resist,
for as long as you can, the idea that he's finally jumped the rails."

Fran admitted the truth of this with a smile.  'I won't deny I have a
vested interest in maintaining an aura of infallibility."

'So do we,' replied the P-G.  'It was Ben and I who.

recruited him into AMEXICO and sent him back out there."  He treated
Karlstrom to a genial smile, enjoying his predicament.  'Could young
Brickman have outfoxed us?  Me, the man who's supposed to know
everything and you, the man who likes to think he knows everything?"

'Don't rub it in..."

'Just kidding, Ben."  Karlstrom was one of the few people the
President-General could relax with.  'Okay, if you don't yet have the
facts, Fran, make an informed guess.  ' 'Kazan is confused but her
background material shows her to be a dedicated Grade A soldier.  I'm
inclined to believe her testimony - even though much of it is not
admissible."

'Ben .  . .?"

'I agree.  If Brickman had been part of the plan to cripple The Lady
he'd have killed our three operatives at Long Point.  We deliberately
kept the reception committee small to allow him some elbow room, some
flexibility.  But it didn't enter his plan of action.  It was Kelso who
went through the motions - and allowed Kazan to talk him out of it.

The two incidents just don't square - and whatever else he might be,
our golden boy is consistent."  Karlstrom outlined what he thought
Steve's game-plan might be.

'And you think, when he discovered Kelso was a fellow Mexican, he put
him in the picture..."

'Let's call him Rat-Catcher and her Jodi.  That way, we'll know which
"K" was working for us.  And the answer to your question is "Yes", I
think he did.  Jodi says Brickman talked to him for about twenty
minutes and both of them kept their voices down.  Rat-Catcher was an
old hand.  He wouldn't have spent time swapping case-notes and--' '--it
was too early for them to be saying goodbye..."

'Exactly.  What is more, the two Mutes weren't around.  If their
eventual fate was the subject of the conversation Brickman couldn't
have picked a better time.  As to his game-plan, well - there I'm only
guessing."

'But it does fit in with what we know of his character?"

The President-General aimed the question at Fran.

'Oh, yes.  Brickman is more than capable of that degree of
deception."

'The question is - was that all Rat-Catcher was supposed to tell us?

Or was there something else?"

The P-G smiled.  'I'll leave you to wrestle with the imponderables,
Ben."  He stood up to indicate the meeting was over.  'Brickman knows
what will happen to his kin-sister if he steps too far out of line."  A
thought struck him.  'Can't she tell you what he's up to?"

'Only in general terms.  The psychic feed-back is much more precise
when she's trying to establish his location.

But for some reason, the heavy snow that's currently blanketing
Illinois and Indiana makes it impossible to relate the images she is
receiving to the map I gave her."

The P-G accepted this with an understanding nod.

'While we're on the subject I took another look at that video tape you
sent over."

'Oh - you mean when Brickman was forced to bite the arrow?"

'Yes.  Very disturbing..."

'I know how you feel.  It never ceases to amaze me.

But the one interesting point to emerge from our study of this pair is
the fact that the link only appears to work one way.  Brickman doesn't
seem to be aware we know he's alive.  If he did, he wouldn't have
gotten Jodi to tell Hartmann that he and the Mutes had been killed."

'Or given Rat-Catcher a message telling us - perhaps that he was still
up and running."

'Exactly."

Fran was slow to grasp the point Karlstrom was trying to make.  'You
mean, uh... he could have telegraphed his true intentions through
Roz...?"

'Yes..."

'Maybe he did,' mused the P-G.  'And maybe she decided not to tell you
about it."

'The thought had occurred to me,' admitted Kafistrom.  'I was hoping
you wouldn't mention it."

'Do we have any way of finding out how this
